" Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg -- that ' s who ye are speaking to , young man . It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted out for the voyage , and supplied with all her needs , including crew . We are part owners and agents . But as I was going to say , if thou wantest to know what whaling is , as thou tellest ye do , I can put ye in a way of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it , past backing out . Clap eye on Captain Ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he has only one leg ."

I will now refer you to Langsdorff ' s Voyages for a little circumstance in point , peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof . Langsdorff , you must know by the way , was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern ' s famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century . Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter :

Meantime , they hauled more and more upon their lines , till close flanking him on both sides , Stubb answered Flask with lance for lance ; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went , while the multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale ' s body , rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled , thirstily drinking at every new gash , as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains that poured from the smitten rock .

" God bless ye , and have ye in His holy keeping , men ," murmured old Bildad , almost incoherently . " I hope ye ' ll have fine weather now , so that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye -- a pleasant sun is all he needs , and ye ' ll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go . Be careful in the hunt , ye mates . Don ' t stave the boats needlessly , ye harpooneers ; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent . within the year . Don ' t forget your prayers , either . Mr . Starbuck , mind that cooper don ' t waste the spare staves . Oh ! the sail - needles are in the green locker ! Don ' t whale it too much a ' Lord ' s days , men ; but don ' t miss a fair chance either , that ' s rejecting Heaven ' s good gifts . Have an eye to the molasses tierce , Mr . Stubb ; it was a little leaky , I thought . If ye touch at the islands , Mr . Flask , beware of fornication . Good - bye , good - bye ! Don ' t keep that cheese too long down in the hold , Mr . Starbuck ; it ' ll spoil . Be careful with the butter -- twenty cents the pound it was , and mind ye , if --"

It was during the more pleasant weather , that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast - head came round .

" Cough be damned ! Pass along that return bucket ."

" Come hither to me -- hither , hither ," said Peleg , with a significance in his eye that almost startled me . " Look ye , lad ; never say that on board the Pequod . Never say it anywhere . Captain Ahab did not name himself . ' Twas a foolish , ignorant whim of his crazy , widowed mother , who died when he was only a twelvemonth old . And yet the old squaw Tistig , at Gayhead , said that the name would somehow prove prophetic . And , perhaps , other fools like her may tell thee the same . I wish to warn thee . It ' s a lie . I know Captain Ahab well ; I ' ve sailed with him as mate years ago ; I know what he is -- a good man -- not a pious , good man , like Bildad , but a swearing good man -- something like me -- only there ' s a good deal more of him . Aye , aye , I know that he was never very jolly ; and I know that on the passage home , he was a little out of his mind for a spell ; but it was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump that brought that about , as any one might see . I know , too , that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale , he ' s been a kind of moody -- desperate moody , and savage sometimes ; but that will all pass off . And once for all , let me tell thee and assure thee , young man , it ' s better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one . So good - bye to thee -- and wrong not Captain Ahab , because he happens to have a wicked name . Besides , my boy , he has a wife -- not three voyages wedded -- a sweet , resigned girl . Think of that ; by that sweet girl that old man has a child : hold ye then there can be any utter , hopeless harm in Ahab ? No , no , my lad ; stricken , blasted , if he be , Ahab has his humanities !"

Then , again , in 1825 , Bernard Germain , Count de Lacepede , a great naturalist , published a scientific systemized whale book , wherein are several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan . All these are not only incorrect , but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale ( that is to say , the Right whale ), even Scoresby , a long experienced man as touching that species , declares not to have its counterpart in nature .

CHAPTER 59

Look now at Stubb ; a man who from his humorous , deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies , was specially qualified to excel in pitchpoling . Look at him ; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the flying boat ; wrapt in fleecy foam , the towing whale is forty feet ahead . Handling the long lance lightly , glancing twice or thrice along its length to see if it be exactly straight , Stubb whistlingly gathers up the coil of the warp in one hand , so as to secure its free end in his grasp , leaving the rest unobstructed . Then holding the lance full before his waistband ' s middle , he levels it at the whale ; when , covering him with it , he steadily depresses the butt - end in his hand , thereby elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm , fifteen feet in the air . He minds you somewhat of a juggler , balancing a long staff on his chin . Next moment with a rapid , nameless impulse , in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming distance , and quivers in the life spot of the whale . Instead of sparkling water , he now spouts red blood .

" On one occasion I saw two of these monsters ( whales ) probably male and female , slowly swimming , one after the other , within less than a stone ' s throw of the shore " ( Terra Del Fuego ), " over which the beech tree extended its branches ." -- DARWIN ' S VOYAGE OF A NATURALIST .

Now having a night , a day , and still another night following before me in New Bedford , ere I could embark for my destined port , it became a matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile . It was a very dubious - looking , nay , a very dark and dismal night , bitingly cold and cheerless . I knew no one in the place . With anxious grapnels I had sounded my pocket , and only brought up a few pieces of silver ,-- So , wherever you go , Ishmael , said I to myself , as I stood in the middle of a dreary street shouldering my bag , and comparing the gloom towards the north with the darkness towards the south -- wherever in your wisdom you may conclude to lodge for the night , my dear Ishmael , be sure to inquire the price , and don ' t be too particular .

Walking the deck with quick , side - lunging strides , Ahab commanded the t ' gallant sails and royals to be set , and every stunsail spread . The best man in the ship must take the helm . Then , with every mast - head manned , the piled - up craft rolled down before the wind . The strange , upheaving , lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows of so many sails , made the buoyant , hovering deck to feel like air beneath the feet ; while still she rushed along , as if two antagonistic influences were struggling in her -- one to mount direct to heaven , the other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal . And had you watched Ahab ' s face that night , you would have thought that in him also two different things were warring . While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck , every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin - tap . On life and death this old man walked . But though the ship so swiftly sped , and though from every eye , like arrows , the eager glances shot , yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night . Every sailor swore he saw it once , but not a second time .

" We have been at great trouble , and peril , and some expense , and is all that to go to the Duke ' s benefit ; we getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters ?"

Be it said , however , that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species . Where one of that sort go down , twenty Right Whales do . This difference in the species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale ; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton ; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free . But there are instances where , after the lapse of many hours or several days , the sunken whale again rises , more buoyant than in life . But the reason of this is obvious . Gases are generated in him ; he swells to a prodigious magnitude ; becomes a sort of animal balloon . A line - of - battle ship could hardly keep him under then . In the Shore Whaling , on soundings , among the Bays of New Zealand , when a Right Whale gives token of sinking , they fasten buoys to him , with plenty of rope ; so that when the body has gone down , they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again .

I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas , something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale - ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there . It may be worth while , therefore , previously to advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman . It is time to set the world right in this matter , by proving such pictures of the whale all wrong .

CHAPTER 70

" May be ; may be . But it ' s made a wise man of me , Flask . D ' ye see Ahab standing there , sideways looking over the stern ? Well , the best thing you can do , Flask , is to let the old man alone ; never speak to him , whatever he says . Halloa ! What ' s that he shouts ? Hark !"

" Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks , the infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over ; he rears his enormous head , and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him ; he rushes at the boats with his head ; they are propelled before him with vast swiftness , and sometimes utterly destroyed . ... It is a matter of great astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so interesting , and , in a commercial point of view , so important an animal ( as the Sperm Whale ) should have been so entirely neglected , or should have excited so little curiosity among the numerous , and many of them competent observers , that of late years , must have possessed the most abundant and the most convenient opportunities of witnessing their habitudes ." -- THOMAS BEALE ' S HISTORY OF THE SPERM WHALE , 1839 .

But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on board , as she did the last day , with a long oil - ladle in one hand , and a still longer whaling lance in the other . Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward . As for Bildad , he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed , and at every fresh arrival , down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper . Every once in a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den , roaring at the men down the hatchways , roaring up to the riggers at the mast - head , and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam .

It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale ' s prodigious head hanging to the Pequod ' s side . But we must let it continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it . For the present other matters press , and the best we can do now for the head , is to pray heaven the tackles may hold .

" But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct , he kept his own counsel ( at least till all was over ) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles of his heart . He was in Radney the chief mate ' s watch ; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than half way to meet his doom , after the scene at the rigging , he insisted , against the express counsel of the captain , upon resuming the head of his watch at night . Upon this , and one or two other circumstances , Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge .

I considered the matter a moment , and then up stairs we went , and I was ushered into a small room , cold as a clam , and furnished , sure enough , with a prodigious bed , almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep abreast .

The hours wore on ;-- Ahab now shut up within his cabin ; anon , pacing the deck , with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect .

" No , sir ; not yet ," said Stubb , emboldened , " I will not tamely be called a dog , sir ."

CHAPTER 17

ALL . The squall ! the squall ! jump , my jollies ! ( THEY SCATTER .)

" Where - away ?"

Secondly : The ship Union , also of Nantucket , was in the year 1807 totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset , but the authentic particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter , though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it .

But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order , a pale man , with a bandaged head , arrested them -- Radney the chief mate . Ever since the blow , he had lain in his berth ; but that morning , hearing the tumult on the deck , he had crept out , and thus far had watched the whole scene . Such was the state of his mouth , that he could hardly speak ; but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the captain dared not attempt , he snatched the rope and advanced to his pinioned foe .

" Dost know nothing at all about whaling , I dare say -- eh ?

Ere long , from his first visit in the air , he withdrew into his cabin . But after that morning , he was every day visible to the crew ; either standing in his pivot - hole , or seated upon an ivory stool he had ; or heavily walking the deck . As the sky grew less gloomy ; indeed , began to grow a little genial , he became still less and less a recluse ; as if , when the ship had sailed from home , nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded . And , by and by , it came to pass , that he was almost continually in the air ; but , as yet , for all that he said , or perceptibly did , on the at last sunny deck , he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast . But the Pequod was only making a passage now ; not regularly cruising ; nearly all whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to , so that there was little or nothing , out of himself , to employ or excite Ahab , now ; and thus chase away , for that one interval , the clouds that layer upon layer were piled upon his brow , as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon .

" I think I remember some such story as you were telling ," said Flask , when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the ship , " but I can ' t remember where ."

" He wants you to take a glass of wine with him ," said the interpreter .

BOOK I . ( FOLIO ), CHAPTER I . ( SPERM WHALE ).-- This whale , among the English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale , and the Physeter whale , and the Anvil Headed whale , is the present Cachalot of the French , and the Pottsfich of the Germans , and the Macrocephalus of the Long Words . He is , without doubt , the largest inhabitant of the globe ; the most formidable of all whales to encounter ; the most majestic in aspect ; and lastly , by far the most valuable in commerce ; he being the only creature from which that valuable substance , spermaceti , is obtained . All his peculiarities will , in many other places , be enlarged upon . It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do . Philologically considered , it is absurd . Some centuries ago , when the Sperm whale was almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality , and when his oil was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish ; in those days spermaceti , it would seem , was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale . It was the idea also , that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses . In those times , also , spermaceti was exceedingly scarce , not being used for light , but only as an ointment and medicament . It was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb . When , as I opine , in the course of time , the true nature of spermaceti became known , its original name was still retained by the dealers ; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity . And so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti was really derived .

For some time past , though at intervals only , the unaccompanied , secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen . But not all of them knew of his existence ; only a few of them , comparatively , had knowingly seen him ; while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him , was small indeed . For , owing to the large number of whale - cruisers ; the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference , many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes , so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch , to encounter a single news - telling sail of any sort ; the inordinate length of each separate voyage ; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home ; all these , with other circumstances , direct and indirect , long obstructed the spread through the whole world - wide whaling - fleet of the special individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick . It was hardly to be doubted , that several vessels reported to have encountered , at such or such a time , or on such or such a meridian , a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity , which whale , after doing great mischief to his assailants , had completely escaped them ; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption , I say , that the whale in question must have been no other than Moby Dick . Yet as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not unfrequent instances of great ferocity , cunning , and malice in the monster attacked ; therefore it was , that those who by accident ignorantly gave battle to Moby Dick ; such hunters , perhaps , for the most part , were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred , more , as it were , to the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large , than to the individual cause . In that way , mostly , the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded .

" Queequeg no care what god made him shark ," said the savage , agonizingly lifting his hand up and down ; " wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god ; but de god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin ."

Wet , drenched through , and shivering cold , despairing of ship or boat , we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on . The mist still spread over the sea , the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat . Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet , hollowing his hand to his ear . We all heard a faint creaking , as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by the storm . The sound came nearer and nearer ; the thick mists were dimly parted by a huge , vague form . Affrighted , we all sprang into the sea as the ship at last loomed into view , bearing right down upon us within a distance of not much more than its length .

Even as it was , I thought something of slipping out of the window , but it was the second floor back . I am no coward , but what to make of this head - peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension . Ignorance is the parent of fear , and being completely nonplussed and confounded about the stranger , I confess I was now as much afraid of him as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of night . In fact , I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then to address him , and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed inexplicable in him .

" No ," said Peleg , " and he hasn ' t been baptized right either , or it would have washed some of that devil ' s blue off his face ."

" A mariner sat in the shrouds one night , The wind was piping free ; Now bright , now dimmed , was the moonlight pale , And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale , As it floundered in the sea ." -- ELIZABETH OAKES SMITH .

The Castaway .

" The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the water - works at London Bridge , and the water roaring in its passage through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood gushing from the whale ' s heart ." -- PALEY ' S THEOLOGY .

With memories like these in him , and , moreover , given to a certain superstitiousness , as has been said ; the courage of this Starbuck which could , nevertheless , still flourish , must indeed have been extreme . But it was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized , and with such terrible experiences and remembrances as he had ; it was not in nature that these things should fail in latently engendering an element in him , which , under suitable circumstances , would break out from its confinement , and burn all his courage up . And brave as he might be , it was that sort of bravery chiefly , visible in some intrepid men , which , while generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas , or winds , or whales , or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world , yet cannot withstand those more terrific , because more spiritual terrors , which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged and mighty man .

Ship and boat diverged ; the cold , damp night breeze blew between ; a screaming gull flew overhead ; the two hulls wildly rolled ; we gave three heavy - hearted cheers , and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic .

" Who ' s Old Thunder ?" said I , again riveted with the insane earnestness of his manner .

" Good night , landlord ," said I , " you may go ."

"' Will you be so good as to bring the priest also , Don ?'

" Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him ; One would think the deep to be hoary ." -- JOB .

CHAPTER 53

Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me , I had noticed that the seamen at the main and mizzen - mast - heads were already drowsy . So that at last all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars , and for every swing that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman . The waves , too , nodded their indolent crests ; and across the wide trance of the sea , east nodded to west , and the sun over all .

Next morning , Monday , after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber , for a block , I settled my own and comrade ' s bill ; using , however , my comrade ' s money . The grinning landlord , as well as the boarders , seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between me and Queequeg -- especially as Peter Coffin ' s cock and bull stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person whom I now companied with .

As he mounted the deck , Ahab abruptly accosted him , without at all heeding what he had in his hand ; but in his broken lingo , the German soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale ; immediately turning the conversation to his lamp - feeder and oil can , with some remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in profound darkness -- his last drop of Bremen oil being gone , and not a single flying - fish yet captured to supply the deficiency ; concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically called a CLEAN one ( that is , an empty one ), well deserving the name of Jungfrau or the Virgin .

The Prophet .

Every whale - ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships , whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed , depends upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans . Thus , most letters never reach their mark ; and many are only received after attaining an age of two or three years or more .

Though many of the whales , as has been said , were in violent motion , yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor retreated , but collectively remained in one place . As is customary in those cases , the boats at once separated , each making for some one lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal . In about three minutes ' time , Queequeg ' s harpoon was flung ; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces , and then running away with us like light , steered straight for the heart of the herd . Though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such circumstances , is in no wise unprecedented ; and indeed is almost always more or less anticipated ; yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery . For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal , you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a delirious throb .

Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo , a gigantic , coal - black negro - savage , with a lion - like tread -- an Ahasuerus to behold . Suspended from his ears were two golden hoops , so large that the sailors called them ring - bolts , and would talk of securing the top - sail halyards to them . In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler , lying in a lonely bay on his native coast . And never having been anywhere in the world but in Africa , Nantucket , and the pagan harbors most frequented by whalemen ; and having now led for many years the bold life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what manner of men they shipped ; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues , and erect as a giraffe , moved about the decks in all the pomp of six feet five in his socks . There was a corporeal humility in looking up at him ; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress . Curious to tell , this imperial negro , Ahasuerus Daggoo , was the Squire of little Flask , who looked like a chess - man beside him . As for the residue of the Pequod ' s company , be it said , that at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the mast employed in the American whale fishery , are Americans born , though pretty nearly all the officers are . Herein it is the same with the American whale fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies , and the engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and Railroads . The same , I say , because in all these cases the native American liberally provides the brains , the rest of the world as generously supplying the muscles . No small number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores , where the outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores . In like manner , the Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London , put in at the Shetland Islands , to receive the full complement of their crew . Upon the passage homewards , they drop them there again . How it is , there is no telling , but Islanders seem to make the best whalemen . They were nearly all Islanders in the Pequod , ISOLATOES too , I call such , not acknowledging the common continent of men , but each ISOLATO living on a separate continent of his own . Yet now , federated along one keel , what a set these Isolatoes were ! An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles of the sea , and all the ends of the earth , accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay the world ' s grievances before that bar from which not very many of them ever come back . Black Little Pip -- he never did -- oh , no ! he went before . Poor Alabama boy ! On the grim Pequod ' s forecastle , ye shall ere long see him , beating his tambourine ; prelusive of the eternal time , when sent for , to the great quarter - deck on high , he was bid strike in with angels , and beat his tambourine in glory ; called a coward here , hailed a hero there !

Coffin ?-- Spouter ?-- Rather ominous in that particular connexion , thought I . But it is a common name in Nantucket , they say , and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there . As the light looked so dim , and the place , for the time , looked quiet enough , and the dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt district , and as the swinging sign had a poverty - stricken sort of creak to it , I thought that here was the very spot for cheap lodgings , and the best of pea coffee .

Almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enormous mass dropped into the sea , like Niagara ' s Table - Rock into the whirlpool ; the suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it , to far down her glittering copper ; and all caught their breath , as half swinging -- now over the sailors ' heads , and now over the water -- Daggoo , through a thick mist of spray , was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles , while poor , buried - alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea ! But hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away , when a naked figure with a boarding - sword in his hand , was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks . The next , a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue . One packed rush was made to the side , and every eye counted every ripple , as moment followed moment , and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen . Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside , and pushed a little off from the ship .

" Do with it ? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home ;-- what else ?"

Sunset .

" Broke ," said I --" BROKE , do you mean ?"

" Woo - hoo ! Wa - hee !" screamed the Gay - Header in reply , raising some old war - whoop to the skies ; as every oarsman in the strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading stroke which the eager Indian gave .

" Aye , aye , I thought so . Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship ."

Folding back the counterpane , I stooped over the bed . Though none of the most elegant , it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well . I then glanced round the room ; and besides the bedstead and centre table , could see no other furniture belonging to the place , but a rude shelf , the four walls , and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale . Of things not properly belonging to the room , there was a hammock lashed up , and thrown upon the floor in one corner ; also a large seaman ' s bag , containing the harpooneer ' s wardrobe , no doubt in lieu of a land trunk . Likewise , there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf over the fire - place , and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed .

Heads or Tails .

Bethink yourself also of another thing . When two large , loaded Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks , what do the sailors do ? They do not suspend between them , at the point of coming contact , any merely hard substance , like iron or wood . No , they hold there a large , round wad of tow and cork , enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox - hide . That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow - bars . By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at . But supplementary to this , it has hypothetically occurred to me , that as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them , capable , at will , of distension or contraction ; and as the Sperm Whale , as far as I know , has no such provision in him ; considering , too , the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the surface , and anon swims with it high elevated out of the water ; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope ; considering the unique interior of his head ; it has hypothetically occurred to me , I say , that those mystical lung - celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with the outer air , so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and contraction . If this be so , fancy the irresistibleness of that might , to which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes .

" You said up there , didn ' t you ? and now look yourself , and see where your tongs are pointing . But , perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber ' s hole , cook ; but , no , no , cook , you don ' t get there , except you go the regular way , round by the rigging . It ' s a ticklish business , but must be done , or else it ' s no go . But none of us are in heaven yet . Drop your tongs , cook , and hear my orders . Do ye hear ? Hold your hat in one hand , and clap t ' other a ' top of your heart , when I ' m giving my orders , cook . What ! that your heart , there ?-- that ' s your gizzard ! Aloft ! aloft !-- that ' s it -- now you have it . Hold it there now , and pay attention ."

" On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie , Don ; but -- I crave your courtesy -- may be , you shall soon hear further of all that . Now , gentlemen , in square - sail brigs and three - masted ships , well - nigh as large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far Manilla ; this Lakeman , in the land - locked heart of our America , had yet been nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly connected with the open ocean . For in their interflowing aggregate , those grand fresh - water seas of ours ,-- Erie , and Ontario , and Huron , and Superior , and Michigan ,-- possess an ocean - like expansiveness , with many of the ocean ' s noblest traits ; with many of its rimmed varieties of races and of climes . They contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles , even as the Polynesian waters do ; in large part , are shored by two great contrasting nations , as the Atlantic is ; they furnish long maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East , dotted all round their banks ; here and there are frowned upon by batteries , and by the goat - like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw ; they have heard the fleet thunderings of naval victories ; at intervals , they yield their beaches to wild barbarians , whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams ; for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests , where the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies ; those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey , and silken creatures whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors ; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland , as well as Winnebago villages ; they float alike the full - rigged merchant ship , the armed cruiser of the State , the steamer , and the beech canoe ; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as direful as any that lash the salted wave ; they know what shipwrecks are , for out of sight of land , however inland , they have drowned full many a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew . Thus , gentlemen , though an inlander , Steelkilt was wild - ocean born , and wild - ocean nurtured ; as much of an audacious mariner as any . And for Radney , though in his infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach , to nurse at his maternal sea ; though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific ; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods seaman , fresh from the latitudes of buck - horn handled bowie - knives . Yet was this Nantucketer a man with some good - hearted traits ; and this Lakeman , a mariner , who though a sort of devil indeed , might yet by inflexible firmness , only tempered by that common decency of human recognition which is the meanest slave ' s right ; thus treated , this Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile . At all events , he had proved so thus far ; but Radney was doomed and made mad , and Steelkilt -- but , gentlemen , you shall hear .

Instantly the captain ran forward , and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the cutting - tackles , and at once cast loose the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship .

Another thing . Flask was the last person down at the dinner , and Flask is the first man up . Consider ! For hereby Flask ' s dinner was badly jammed in point of time . Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him ; and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear . If Stubb even , who is but a peg higher than Flask , happens to have but a small appetite , and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast , then Flask must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day ; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck . Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private , that ever since he had arisen to the dignity of an officer , from that moment he had never known what it was to be otherwise than hungry , more or less . For what he ate did not so much relieve his hunger , as keep it immortal in him . Peace and satisfaction , thought Flask , have for ever departed from my stomach . I am an officer ; but , how I wish I could fish a bit of old - fashioned beef in the forecastle , as I used to when I was before the mast . There ' s the fruits of promotion now ; there ' s the vanity of glory : there ' s the insanity of life ! Besides , if it were so that any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask ' s official capacity , all that sailor had to do , in order to obtain ample vengeance , was to go aft at dinner - time , and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky - light , sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab .

Thus the whale - line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils , twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction . All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions ; so that to the timid eye of the landsman , they seem as Indian jugglers , with the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs . Nor can any son of mortal woman , for the first time , seat himself amid those hempen intricacies , and while straining his utmost at the oar , bethink him that at any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted , and all these horrible contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings ; he cannot be thus circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones to quiver in him like a shaken jelly . Yet habit -- strange thing ! what cannot habit accomplish ?-- Gayer sallies , more merry mirth , better jokes , and brighter repartees , you never heard over your mahogany , than you will hear over the half - inch white cedar of the whale - boat , when thus hung in hangman ' s nooses ; and , like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward , the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death , with a halter around every neck , as you may say .

" Ah , my dear fellow , you can ' t fool us that way -- you can ' t fool us . It is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him ."

" WHALE . ... It is more immediately from the Dut . and Ger . WALLEN ; A . S . WALW - IAN , to roll , to wallow ." -- RICHARDSON ' S DICTIONARY

So fare thee well , poor devil of a Sub - Sub , whose commentator I am . Thou belongest to that hopeless , sallow tribe which no wine of this world will ever warm ; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy - strong ; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit , and feel poor - devilish , too ; and grow convivial upon tears ; and say to them bluntly , with full eyes and empty glasses , and in not altogether unpleasant sadness -- Give it up , Sub - Subs ! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world , by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless ! Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye ! But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal - mast with your hearts ; for your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven - storied heavens , and making refugees of long - pampered Gabriel , Michael , and Raphael , against your coming . Here ye strike but splintered hearts together -- there , ye shall strike unsplinterable glasses !

" Do you is all sharks , and by natur wery woracious , yet I zay to you , fellow - critters , dat dat woraciousness --' top dat dam slappin ' ob de tail ! How you tink to hear , spose you keep up such a dam slappin ' and bitin ' dare ?"

Now comes the Baling of the Case . But to comprehend it aright , you must know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated upon .

All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air . But it bade fair to outstrip them ; it flew on and on , as a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the hills .

The Specksynder .

" Mrs . Hussey ," said I , " he ' s ALIVE at all events ; so leave us , if you please , and I will see to this strange affair myself ."

PORTUGUESE SAILOR . How the sea rolls swashing ' gainst the side ! Stand by for reefing , hearties ! the winds are just crossing swords , pell - mell they ' ll go lunging presently .

But there was no time for shuddering , for now the savage went about something that completely fascinated my attention , and convinced me that he must indeed be a heathen . Going to his heavy grego , or wrapall , or dreadnaught , which he had previously hung on a chair , he fumbled in the pockets , and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch on its back , and exactly the colour of a three days ' old Congo baby . Remembering the embalmed head , at first I almost thought that this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner . But seeing that it was not at all limber , and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony , I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol , which indeed it proved to be . For now the savage goes up to the empty fire - place , and removing the papered fire - board , sets up this little hunch - backed image , like a tenpin , between the andirons . The chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty , so that I thought this fire - place made a very appropriate little shrine or chapel for his Congo idol .

"' What are you making there ?' said a shipmate .

Returning from my first morning stroll , I again sallied out upon this special errand . The sky had changed from clear , sunny cold , to driving sleet and mist . Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called bearskin , I fought my way against the stubborn storm . Entering , I found a small scattered congregation of sailors , and sailors ' wives and widows . A muffled silence reigned , only broken at times by the shrieks of the storm . Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from the other , as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable . The chaplain had not yet arrived ; and there these silent islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets , with black borders , masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit . Three of them ran something like the following , but I do not pretend to quote :--

Tashtego stood in the bows . He was full of the fire of the hunt . He hated Pip for a poltroon . Snatching the boat - knife from its sheath , he suspended its sharp edge over the line , and turning towards Stubb , exclaimed interrogatively , " Cut ?" Meantime Pip ' s blue , choked face plainly looked , Do , for God ' s sake ! All passed in a flash . In less than half a minute , this entire thing happened .

CHAPTER 60

" Who - e debel you ?" -- he at last said --" you no speak - e , dam - me , I kill - e ." And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the dark .

Stubb ' s exordium to his crew is given here at large , because he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general , and especially in inculcating the religion of rowing . But you must not suppose from this specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with his congregation . Not at all ; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity . He would say the most terrific things to his crew , in a tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury , and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a spice to the fun , that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without pulling for dear life , and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing . Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself , so loungingly managed his steering - oar , and so broadly gaped -- open - mouthed at times -- that the mere sight of such a yawning commander , by sheer force of contrast , acted like a charm upon the crew . Then again , Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists , whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous , as to put all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them .

TASHTEGO . ( QUIETLY SMOKING ) That ' s a white man ; he calls that fun : humph ! I save my sweat .

" With what ?" shouted I .

The Dart .

It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman , that a most significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod ' s crew ; an event most lamentable ; and which ended in providing the sometimes madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own .

But no more of this blubbering now , we are going a - whaling , and there is plenty of that yet to come . Let us scrape the ice from our frosted feet , and see what sort of a place this " Spouter " may be .

I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia ; expressing the idea very plainly , so that he could take it in . He said no ; only upon one memorable occasion . It was after a great feast given by his father the king , on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o ' clock in the afternoon , and all cooked and eaten that very evening .

But before going further , it is important to mention here , that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance , yet it is seldom done ; and when done , is still less frequently successful , on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as compared with the lance , which in effect become serious drawbacks . As a general thing , therefore , you must first get fast to a whale , before any pitchpoling comes into play .

' Twas not so hard a task . I thought to find one stubborn , at the least ; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels , and they revolve . Or , if you will , like so many ant - hills of powder , they all stand before me ; and I their match . Oh , hard ! that to fire others , the match itself must needs be wasting ! What I ' ve dared , I ' ve willed ; and what I ' ve willed , I ' ll do ! They think me mad -- Starbuck does ; but I ' m demoniac , I am madness maddened ! That wild madness that ' s only calm to comprehend itself ! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered ; and -- Aye ! I lost this leg . I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer . Now , then , be the prophet and the fulfiller one . That ' s more than ye , ye great gods , ever were . I laugh and hoot at ye , ye cricket - players , ye pugilists , ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes ! I will not say as schoolboys do to bullies -- Take some one of your own size ; don ' t pommel ME ! No , ye ' ve knocked me down , and I am up again ; but YE have run and hidden . Come forth from behind your cotton bags ! I have no long gun to reach ye . Come , Ahab ' s compliments to ye ; come and see if ye can swerve me . Swerve me ? ye cannot swerve me , else ye swerve yourselves ! man has ye there . Swerve me ? The path to my fixed purpose is laid with iron rails , whereon my soul is grooved to run . Over unsounded gorges , through the rifled hearts of mountains , under torrents ' beds , unerringly I rush ! Naught ' s an obstacle , naught ' s an angle to the iron way !

" No , no , no ; I wasn ' t aware of that ," said Elijah , slowly and wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg , with the most unaccountable glances .

Thus much being said , attend now , I pray you , to that marvellous and -- in this particular instance -- almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Whale ' s great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped .

" No , cook ; go on , go on ."

" Man overboard !" cried Daggoo , who amid the general consternation first came to his senses . " Swing the bucket this way !" and putting one foot into it , so as the better to secure his slippery hand - hold on the whip itself , the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head , almost before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom . Meantime , there was a terrible tumult . Looking over the side , they saw the before lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea , as if that moment seized with some momentous idea ; whereas it was only the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which he had sunk ." Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg -- that ' s who ye are speaking to , young man . It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted out for the voyage , and supplied with all her needs , including crew . We are part owners and agents . But as I was going to say , if thou wantest to know what whaling is , as thou tellest ye do , I can put ye in a way of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it , past backing out . Clap eye on Captain Ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he has only one leg ."

I will now refer you to Langsdorff ' s Voyages for a little circumstance in point , peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof . Langsdorff , you must know by the way , was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern ' s famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century . Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter :

Meantime , they hauled more and more upon their lines , till close flanking him on both sides , Stubb answered Flask with lance for lance ; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went , while the multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale ' s body , rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled , thirstily drinking at every new gash , as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains that poured from the smitten rock .

" God bless ye , and have ye in His holy keeping , men ," murmured old Bildad , almost incoherently . " I hope ye ' ll have fine weather now , so that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye -- a pleasant sun is all he needs , and ye ' ll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go . Be careful in the hunt , ye mates . Don ' t stave the boats needlessly , ye harpooneers ; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent . within the year . Don ' t forget your prayers , either . Mr . Starbuck , mind that cooper don ' t waste the spare staves . Oh ! the sail - needles are in the green locker ! Don ' t whale it too much a ' Lord ' s days , men ; but don ' t miss a fair chance either , that ' s rejecting Heaven ' s good gifts . Have an eye to the molasses tierce , Mr . Stubb ; it was a little leaky , I thought . If ye touch at the islands , Mr . Flask , beware of fornication . Good - bye , good - bye ! Don ' t keep that cheese too long down in the hold , Mr . Starbuck ; it ' ll spoil . Be careful with the butter -- twenty cents the pound it was , and mind ye , if --"

It was during the more pleasant weather , that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast - head came round .

" Cough be damned ! Pass along that return bucket ."

" Come hither to me -- hither , hither ," said Peleg , with a significance in his eye that almost startled me . " Look ye , lad ; never say that on board the Pequod . Never say it anywhere . Captain Ahab did not name himself . ' Twas a foolish , ignorant whim of his crazy , widowed mother , who died when he was only a twelvemonth old . And yet the old squaw Tistig , at Gayhead , said that the name would somehow prove prophetic . And , perhaps , other fools like her may tell thee the same . I wish to warn thee . It ' s a lie . I know Captain Ahab well ; I ' ve sailed with him as mate years ago ; I know what he is -- a good man -- not a pious , good man , like Bildad , but a swearing good man -- something like me -- only there ' s a good deal more of him . Aye , aye , I know that he was never very jolly ; and I know that on the passage home , he was a little out of his mind for a spell ; but it was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump that brought that about , as any one might see . I know , too , that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale , he ' s been a kind of moody -- desperate moody , and savage sometimes ; but that will all pass off . And once for all , let me tell thee and assure thee , young man , it ' s better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one . So good - bye to thee -- and wrong not Captain Ahab , because he happens to have a wicked name . Besides , my boy , he has a wife -- not three voyages wedded -- a sweet , resigned girl . Think of that ; by that sweet girl that old man has a child : hold ye then there can be any utter , hopeless harm in Ahab ? No , no , my lad ; stricken , blasted , if he be , Ahab has his humanities !"

Then , again , in 1825 , Bernard Germain , Count de Lacepede , a great naturalist , published a scientific systemized whale book , wherein are several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan . All these are not only incorrect , but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale ( that is to say , the Right whale ), even Scoresby , a long experienced man as touching that species , declares not to have its counterpart in nature .

CHAPTER 59

Look now at Stubb ; a man who from his humorous , deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies , was specially qualified to excel in pitchpoling . Look at him ; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the flying boat ; wrapt in fleecy foam , the towing whale is forty feet ahead . Handling the long lance lightly , glancing twice or thrice along its length to see if it be exactly straight , Stubb whistlingly gathers up the coil of the warp in one hand , so as to secure its free end in his grasp , leaving the rest unobstructed . Then holding the lance full before his waistband ' s middle , he levels it at the whale ; when , covering him with it , he steadily depresses the butt - end in his hand , thereby elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm , fifteen feet in the air . He minds you somewhat of a juggler , balancing a long staff on his chin . Next moment with a rapid , nameless impulse , in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming distance , and quivers in the life spot of the whale . Instead of sparkling water , he now spouts red blood .

" On one occasion I saw two of these monsters ( whales ) probably male and female , slowly swimming , one after the other , within less than a stone ' s throw of the shore " ( Terra Del Fuego ), " over which the beech tree extended its branches ." -- DARWIN ' S VOYAGE OF A NATURALIST .

Now having a night , a day , and still another night following before me in New Bedford , ere I could embark for my destined port , it became a matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile . It was a very dubious - looking , nay , a very dark and dismal night , bitingly cold and cheerless . I knew no one in the place . With anxious grapnels I had sounded my pocket , and only brought up a few pieces of silver ,-- So , wherever you go , Ishmael , said I to myself , as I stood in the middle of a dreary street shouldering my bag , and comparing the gloom towards the north with the darkness towards the south -- wherever in your wisdom you may conclude to lodge for the night , my dear Ishmael , be sure to inquire the price , and don ' t be too particular .

Walking the deck with quick , side - lunging strides , Ahab commanded the t ' gallant sails and royals to be set , and every stunsail spread . The best man in the ship must take the helm . Then , with every mast - head manned , the piled - up craft rolled down before the wind . The strange , upheaving , lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows of so many sails , made the buoyant , hovering deck to feel like air beneath the feet ; while still she rushed along , as if two antagonistic influences were struggling in her -- one to mount direct to heaven , the other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal . And had you watched Ahab ' s face that night , you would have thought that in him also two different things were warring . While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck , every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin - tap . On life and death this old man walked . But though the ship so swiftly sped , and though from every eye , like arrows , the eager glances shot , yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night . Every sailor swore he saw it once , but not a second time .

" We have been at great trouble , and peril , and some expense , and is all that to go to the Duke ' s benefit ; we getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters ?"

Be it said , however , that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species . Where one of that sort go down , twenty Right Whales do . This difference in the species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale ; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton ; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free . But there are instances where , after the lapse of many hours or several days , the sunken whale again rises , more buoyant than in life . But the reason of this is obvious . Gases are generated in him ; he swells to a prodigious magnitude ; becomes a sort of animal balloon . A line - of - battle ship could hardly keep him under then . In the Shore Whaling , on soundings , among the Bays of New Zealand , when a Right Whale gives token of sinking , they fasten buoys to him , with plenty of rope ; so that when the body has gone down , they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again .

I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas , something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale - ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there . It may be worth while , therefore , previously to advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman . It is time to set the world right in this matter , by proving such pictures of the whale all wrong .

CHAPTER 70

" May be ; may be . But it ' s made a wise man of me , Flask . D ' ye see Ahab standing there , sideways looking over the stern ? Well , the best thing you can do , Flask , is to let the old man alone ; never speak to him , whatever he says . Halloa ! What ' s that he shouts ? Hark !"

" Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks , the infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over ; he rears his enormous head , and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him ; he rushes at the boats with his head ; they are propelled before him with vast swiftness , and sometimes utterly destroyed . ... It is a matter of great astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so interesting , and , in a commercial point of view , so important an animal ( as the Sperm Whale ) should have been so entirely neglected , or should have excited so little curiosity among the numerous , and many of them competent observers , that of late years , must have possessed the most abundant and the most convenient opportunities of witnessing their habitudes ." -- THOMAS BEALE ' S HISTORY OF THE SPERM WHALE , 1839 .

But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on board , as she did the last day , with a long oil - ladle in one hand , and a still longer whaling lance in the other . Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward . As for Bildad , he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed , and at every fresh arrival , down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper . Every once in a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den , roaring at the men down the hatchways , roaring up to the riggers at the mast - head , and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam .

It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale ' s prodigious head hanging to the Pequod ' s side . But we must let it continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it . For the present other matters press , and the best we can do now for the head , is to pray heaven the tackles may hold .

" But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct , he kept his own counsel ( at least till all was over ) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles of his heart . He was in Radney the chief mate ' s watch ; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than half way to meet his doom , after the scene at the rigging , he insisted , against the express counsel of the captain , upon resuming the head of his watch at night . Upon this , and one or two other circumstances , Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge .

I considered the matter a moment , and then up stairs we went , and I was ushered into a small room , cold as a clam , and furnished , sure enough , with a prodigious bed , almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep abreast .

The hours wore on ;-- Ahab now shut up within his cabin ; anon , pacing the deck , with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect .

" No , sir ; not yet ," said Stubb , emboldened , " I will not tamely be called a dog , sir ."

CHAPTER 17

ALL . The squall ! the squall ! jump , my jollies ! ( THEY SCATTER .)

" Where - away ?"

Secondly : The ship Union , also of Nantucket , was in the year 1807 totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset , but the authentic particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter , though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it .

But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order , a pale man , with a bandaged head , arrested them -- Radney the chief mate . Ever since the blow , he had lain in his berth ; but that morning , hearing the tumult on the deck , he had crept out , and thus far had watched the whole scene . Such was the state of his mouth , that he could hardly speak ; but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the captain dared not attempt , he snatched the rope and advanced to his pinioned foe .

" Dost know nothing at all about whaling , I dare say -- eh ?

Ere long , from his first visit in the air , he withdrew into his cabin . But after that morning , he was every day visible to the crew ; either standing in his pivot - hole , or seated upon an ivory stool he had ; or heavily walking the deck . As the sky grew less gloomy ; indeed , began to grow a little genial , he became still less and less a recluse ; as if , when the ship had sailed from home , nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded . And , by and by , it came to pass , that he was almost continually in the air ; but , as yet , for all that he said , or perceptibly did , on the at last sunny deck , he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast . But the Pequod was only making a passage now ; not regularly cruising ; nearly all whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to , so that there was little or nothing , out of himself , to employ or excite Ahab , now ; and thus chase away , for that one interval , the clouds that layer upon layer were piled upon his brow , as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon .

" I think I remember some such story as you were telling ," said Flask , when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the ship , " but I can ' t remember where ."

" He wants you to take a glass of wine with him ," said the interpreter .

BOOK I . ( FOLIO ), CHAPTER I . ( SPERM WHALE ).-- This whale , among the English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale , and the Physeter whale , and the Anvil Headed whale , is the present Cachalot of the French , and the Pottsfich of the Germans , and the Macrocephalus of the Long Words . He is , without doubt , the largest inhabitant of the globe ; the most formidable of all whales to encounter ; the most majestic in aspect ; and lastly , by far the most valuable in commerce ; he being the only creature from which that valuable substance , spermaceti , is obtained . All his peculiarities will , in many other places , be enlarged upon . It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do . Philologically considered , it is absurd . Some centuries ago , when the Sperm whale was almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality , and when his oil was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish ; in those days spermaceti , it would seem , was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale . It was the idea also , that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses . In those times , also , spermaceti was exceedingly scarce , not being used for light , but only as an ointment and medicament . It was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb . When , as I opine , in the course of time , the true nature of spermaceti became known , its original name was still retained by the dealers ; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity . And so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti was really derived .

For some time past , though at intervals only , the unaccompanied , secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen . But not all of them knew of his existence ; only a few of them , comparatively , had knowingly seen him ; while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him , was small indeed . For , owing to the large number of whale - cruisers ; the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference , many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes , so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch , to encounter a single news - telling sail of any sort ; the inordinate length of each separate voyage ; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home ; all these , with other circumstances , direct and indirect , long obstructed the spread through the whole world - wide whaling - fleet of the special individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick . It was hardly to be doubted , that several vessels reported to have encountered , at such or such a time , or on such or such a meridian , a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity , which whale , after doing great mischief to his assailants , had completely escaped them ; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption , I say , that the whale in question must have been no other than Moby Dick . Yet as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not unfrequent instances of great ferocity , cunning , and malice in the monster attacked ; therefore it was , that those who by accident ignorantly gave battle to Moby Dick ; such hunters , perhaps , for the most part , were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred , more , as it were , to the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large , than to the individual cause . In that way , mostly , the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded .

" Queequeg no care what god made him shark ," said the savage , agonizingly lifting his hand up and down ; " wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god ; but de god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin ."

Wet , drenched through , and shivering cold , despairing of ship or boat , we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on . The mist still spread over the sea , the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat . Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet , hollowing his hand to his ear . We all heard a faint creaking , as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by the storm . The sound came nearer and nearer ; the thick mists were dimly parted by a huge , vague form . Affrighted , we all sprang into the sea as the ship at last loomed into view , bearing right down upon us within a distance of not much more than its length .

Even as it was , I thought something of slipping out of the window , but it was the second floor back . I am no coward , but what to make of this head - peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension . Ignorance is the parent of fear , and being completely nonplussed and confounded about the stranger , I confess I was now as much afraid of him as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of night . In fact , I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then to address him , and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed inexplicable in him .

" No ," said Peleg , " and he hasn ' t been baptized right either , or it would have washed some of that devil ' s blue off his face ."

" A mariner sat in the shrouds one night , The wind was piping free ; Now bright , now dimmed , was the moonlight pale , And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale , As it floundered in the sea ." -- ELIZABETH OAKES SMITH .

The Castaway .

" The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the water - works at London Bridge , and the water roaring in its passage through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood gushing from the whale ' s heart ." -- PALEY ' S THEOLOGY .

With memories like these in him , and , moreover , given to a certain superstitiousness , as has been said ; the courage of this Starbuck which could , nevertheless , still flourish , must indeed have been extreme . But it was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized , and with such terrible experiences and remembrances as he had ; it was not in nature that these things should fail in latently engendering an element in him , which , under suitable circumstances , would break out from its confinement , and burn all his courage up . And brave as he might be , it was that sort of bravery chiefly , visible in some intrepid men , which , while generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas , or winds , or whales , or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world , yet cannot withstand those more terrific , because more spiritual terrors , which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged and mighty man .

Ship and boat diverged ; the cold , damp night breeze blew between ; a screaming gull flew overhead ; the two hulls wildly rolled ; we gave three heavy - hearted cheers , and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic .

" Who ' s Old Thunder ?" said I , again riveted with the insane earnestness of his manner .

" Good night , landlord ," said I , " you may go ."

"' Will you be so good as to bring the priest also , Don ?'

" Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him ; One would think the deep to be hoary ." -- JOB .

CHAPTER 53

Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me , I had noticed that the seamen at the main and mizzen - mast - heads were already drowsy . So that at last all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars , and for every swing that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman . The waves , too , nodded their indolent crests ; and across the wide trance of the sea , east nodded to west , and the sun over all .

Next morning , Monday , after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber , for a block , I settled my own and comrade ' s bill ; using , however , my comrade ' s money . The grinning landlord , as well as the boarders , seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between me and Queequeg -- especially as Peter Coffin ' s cock and bull stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person whom I now companied with .

As he mounted the deck , Ahab abruptly accosted him , without at all heeding what he had in his hand ; but in his broken lingo , the German soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale ; immediately turning the conversation to his lamp - feeder and oil can , with some remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in profound darkness -- his last drop of Bremen oil being gone , and not a single flying - fish yet captured to supply the deficiency ; concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically called a CLEAN one ( that is , an empty one ), well deserving the name of Jungfrau or the Virgin .

The Prophet .

Every whale - ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships , whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed , depends upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans . Thus , most letters never reach their mark ; and many are only received after attaining an age of two or three years or more .

Though many of the whales , as has been said , were in violent motion , yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor retreated , but collectively remained in one place . As is customary in those cases , the boats at once separated , each making for some one lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal . In about three minutes ' time , Queequeg ' s harpoon was flung ; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces , and then running away with us like light , steered straight for the heart of the herd . Though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such circumstances , is in no wise unprecedented ; and indeed is almost always more or less anticipated ; yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery . For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal , you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a delirious throb .

Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo , a gigantic , coal - black negro - savage , with a lion - like tread -- an Ahasuerus to behold . Suspended from his ears were two golden hoops , so large that the sailors called them ring - bolts , and would talk of securing the top - sail halyards to them . In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler , lying in a lonely bay on his native coast . And never having been anywhere in the world but in Africa , Nantucket , and the pagan harbors most frequented by whalemen ; and having now led for many years the bold life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what manner of men they shipped ; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues , and erect as a giraffe , moved about the decks in all the pomp of six feet five in his socks . There was a corporeal humility in looking up at him ; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress . Curious to tell , this imperial negro , Ahasuerus Daggoo , was the Squire of little Flask , who looked like a chess - man beside him . As for the residue of the Pequod ' s company , be it said , that at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the mast employed in the American whale fishery , are Americans born , though pretty nearly all the officers are . Herein it is the same with the American whale fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies , and the engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and Railroads . The same , I say , because in all these cases the native American liberally provides the brains , the rest of the world as generously supplying the muscles . No small number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores , where the outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores . In like manner , the Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London , put in at the Shetland Islands , to receive the full complement of their crew . Upon the passage homewards , they drop them there again . How it is , there is no telling , but Islanders seem to make the best whalemen . They were nearly all Islanders in the Pequod , ISOLATOES too , I call such , not acknowledging the common continent of men , but each ISOLATO living on a separate continent of his own . Yet now , federated along one keel , what a set these Isolatoes were ! An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles of the sea , and all the ends of the earth , accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay the world ' s grievances before that bar from which not very many of them ever come back . Black Little Pip -- he never did -- oh , no ! he went before . Poor Alabama boy ! On the grim Pequod ' s forecastle , ye shall ere long see him , beating his tambourine ; prelusive of the eternal time , when sent for , to the great quarter - deck on high , he was bid strike in with angels , and beat his tambourine in glory ; called a coward here , hailed a hero there !

Coffin ?-- Spouter ?-- Rather ominous in that particular connexion , thought I . But it is a common name in Nantucket , they say , and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there . As the light looked so dim , and the place , for the time , looked quiet enough , and the dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt district , and as the swinging sign had a poverty - stricken sort of creak to it , I thought that here was the very spot for cheap lodgings , and the best of pea coffee .

Almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enormous mass dropped into the sea , like Niagara ' s Table - Rock into the whirlpool ; the suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it , to far down her glittering copper ; and all caught their breath , as half swinging -- now over the sailors ' heads , and now over the water -- Daggoo , through a thick mist of spray , was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles , while poor , buried - alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea ! But hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away , when a naked figure with a boarding - sword in his hand , was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks . The next , a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue . One packed rush was made to the side , and every eye counted every ripple , as moment followed moment , and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen . Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside , and pushed a little off from the ship .

" Do with it ? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home ;-- what else ?"

Sunset .

" Broke ," said I --" BROKE , do you mean ?"

" Woo - hoo ! Wa - hee !" screamed the Gay - Header in reply , raising some old war - whoop to the skies ; as every oarsman in the strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading stroke which the eager Indian gave .

" Aye , aye , I thought so . Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship ."

Folding back the counterpane , I stooped over the bed . Though none of the most elegant , it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well . I then glanced round the room ; and besides the bedstead and centre table , could see no other furniture belonging to the place , but a rude shelf , the four walls , and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale . Of things not properly belonging to the room , there was a hammock lashed up , and thrown upon the floor in one corner ; also a large seaman ' s bag , containing the harpooneer ' s wardrobe , no doubt in lieu of a land trunk . Likewise , there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf over the fire - place , and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed .

Heads or Tails .

Bethink yourself also of another thing . When two large , loaded Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks , what do the sailors do ? They do not suspend between them , at the point of coming contact , any merely hard substance , like iron or wood . No , they hold there a large , round wad of tow and cork , enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox - hide . That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow - bars . By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at . But supplementary to this , it has hypothetically occurred to me , that as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them , capable , at will , of distension or contraction ; and as the Sperm Whale , as far as I know , has no such provision in him ; considering , too , the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the surface , and anon swims with it high elevated out of the water ; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope ; considering the unique interior of his head ; it has hypothetically occurred to me , I say , that those mystical lung - celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with the outer air , so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and contraction . If this be so , fancy the irresistibleness of that might , to which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes .

" You said up there , didn ' t you ? and now look yourself , and see where your tongs are pointing . But , perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber ' s hole , cook ; but , no , no , cook , you don ' t get there , except you go the regular way , round by the rigging . It ' s a ticklish business , but must be done , or else it ' s no go . But none of us are in heaven yet . Drop your tongs , cook , and hear my orders . Do ye hear ? Hold your hat in one hand , and clap t ' other a ' top of your heart , when I ' m giving my orders , cook . What ! that your heart , there ?-- that ' s your gizzard ! Aloft ! aloft !-- that ' s it -- now you have it . Hold it there now , and pay attention ."

" On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie , Don ; but -- I crave your courtesy -- may be , you shall soon hear further of all that . Now , gentlemen , in square - sail brigs and three - masted ships , well - nigh as large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far Manilla ; this Lakeman , in the land - locked heart of our America , had yet been nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly connected with the open ocean . For in their interflowing aggregate , those grand fresh - water seas of ours ,-- Erie , and Ontario , and Huron , and Superior , and Michigan ,-- possess an ocean - like expansiveness , with many of the ocean ' s noblest traits ; with many of its rimmed varieties of races and of climes . They contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles , even as the Polynesian waters do ; in large part , are shored by two great contrasting nations , as the Atlantic is ; they furnish long maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East , dotted all round their banks ; here and there are frowned upon by batteries , and by the goat - like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw ; they have heard the fleet thunderings of naval victories ; at intervals , they yield their beaches to wild barbarians , whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams ; for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests , where the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies ; those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey , and silken creatures whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors ; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland , as well as Winnebago villages ; they float alike the full - rigged merchant ship , the armed cruiser of the State , the steamer , and the beech canoe ; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as direful as any that lash the salted wave ; they know what shipwrecks are , for out of sight of land , however inland , they have drowned full many a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew . Thus , gentlemen , though an inlander , Steelkilt was wild - ocean born , and wild - ocean nurtured ; as much of an audacious mariner as any . And for Radney , though in his infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach , to nurse at his maternal sea ; though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific ; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods seaman , fresh from the latitudes of buck - horn handled bowie - knives . Yet was this Nantucketer a man with some good - hearted traits ; and this Lakeman , a mariner , who though a sort of devil indeed , might yet by inflexible firmness , only tempered by that common decency of human recognition which is the meanest slave ' s right ; thus treated , this Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile . At all events , he had proved so thus far ; but Radney was doomed and made mad , and Steelkilt -- but , gentlemen , you shall hear .

Instantly the captain ran forward , and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the cutting - tackles , and at once cast loose the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship .

Another thing . Flask was the last person down at the dinner , and Flask is the first man up . Consider ! For hereby Flask ' s dinner was badly jammed in point of time . Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him ; and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear . If Stubb even , who is but a peg higher than Flask , happens to have but a small appetite , and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast , then Flask must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day ; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck . Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private , that ever since he had arisen to the dignity of an officer , from that moment he had never known what it was to be otherwise than hungry , more or less . For what he ate did not so much relieve his hunger , as keep it immortal in him . Peace and satisfaction , thought Flask , have for ever departed from my stomach . I am an officer ; but , how I wish I could fish a bit of old - fashioned beef in the forecastle , as I used to when I was before the mast . There ' s the fruits of promotion now ; there ' s the vanity of glory : there ' s the insanity of life ! Besides , if it were so that any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask ' s official capacity , all that sailor had to do , in order to obtain ample vengeance , was to go aft at dinner - time , and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky - light , sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab .

Thus the whale - line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils , twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction . All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions ; so that to the timid eye of the landsman , they seem as Indian jugglers , with the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs . Nor can any son of mortal woman , for the first time , seat himself amid those hempen intricacies , and while straining his utmost at the oar , bethink him that at any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted , and all these horrible contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings ; he cannot be thus circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones to quiver in him like a shaken jelly . Yet habit -- strange thing ! what cannot habit accomplish ?-- Gayer sallies , more merry mirth , better jokes , and brighter repartees , you never heard over your mahogany , than you will hear over the half - inch white cedar of the whale - boat , when thus hung in hangman ' s nooses ; and , like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward , the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death , with a halter around every neck , as you may say .

" Ah , my dear fellow , you can ' t fool us that way -- you can ' t fool us . It is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him ."

" WHALE . ... It is more immediately from the Dut . and Ger . WALLEN ; A . S . WALW - IAN , to roll , to wallow ." -- RICHARDSON ' S DICTIONARY

So fare thee well , poor devil of a Sub - Sub , whose commentator I am . Thou belongest to that hopeless , sallow tribe which no wine of this world will ever warm ; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy - strong ; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit , and feel poor - devilish , too ; and grow convivial upon tears ; and say to them bluntly , with full eyes and empty glasses , and in not altogether unpleasant sadness -- Give it up , Sub - Subs ! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world , by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless ! Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye ! But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal - mast with your hearts ; for your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven - storied heavens , and making refugees of long - pampered Gabriel , Michael , and Raphael , against your coming . Here ye strike but splintered hearts together -- there , ye shall strike unsplinterable glasses !

" Do you is all sharks , and by natur wery woracious , yet I zay to you , fellow - critters , dat dat woraciousness --' top dat dam slappin ' ob de tail ! How you tink to hear , spose you keep up such a dam slappin ' and bitin ' dare ?"

Now comes the Baling of the Case . But to comprehend it aright , you must know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated upon .

All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air . But it bade fair to outstrip them ; it flew on and on , as a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the hills .

The Specksynder .

" Mrs . Hussey ," said I , " he ' s ALIVE at all events ; so leave us , if you please , and I will see to this strange affair myself ."

PORTUGUESE SAILOR . How the sea rolls swashing ' gainst the side ! Stand by for reefing , hearties ! the winds are just crossing swords , pell - mell they ' ll go lunging presently .

But there was no time for shuddering , for now the savage went about something that completely fascinated my attention , and convinced me that he must indeed be a heathen . Going to his heavy grego , or wrapall , or dreadnaught , which he had previously hung on a chair , he fumbled in the pockets , and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch on its back , and exactly the colour of a three days ' old Congo baby . Remembering the embalmed head , at first I almost thought that this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner . But seeing that it was not at all limber , and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony , I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol , which indeed it proved to be . For now the savage goes up to the empty fire - place , and removing the papered fire - board , sets up this little hunch - backed image , like a tenpin , between the andirons . The chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty , so that I thought this fire - place made a very appropriate little shrine or chapel for his Congo idol .

"' What are you making there ?' said a shipmate .

Returning from my first morning stroll , I again sallied out upon this special errand . The sky had changed from clear , sunny cold , to driving sleet and mist . Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called bearskin , I fought my way against the stubborn storm . Entering , I found a small scattered congregation of sailors , and sailors ' wives and widows . A muffled silence reigned , only broken at times by the shrieks of the storm . Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from the other , as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable . The chaplain had not yet arrived ; and there these silent islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets , with black borders , masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit . Three of them ran something like the following , but I do not pretend to quote :--

Tashtego stood in the bows . He was full of the fire of the hunt . He hated Pip for a poltroon . Snatching the boat - knife from its sheath , he suspended its sharp edge over the line , and turning towards Stubb , exclaimed interrogatively , " Cut ?" Meantime Pip ' s blue , choked face plainly looked , Do , for God ' s sake ! All passed in a flash . In less than half a minute , this entire thing happened .

CHAPTER 60

" Who - e debel you ?" -- he at last said --" you no speak - e , dam - me , I kill - e ." And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the dark .

Stubb ' s exordium to his crew is given here at large , because he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general , and especially in inculcating the religion of rowing . But you must not suppose from this specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with his congregation . Not at all ; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity . He would say the most terrific things to his crew , in a tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury , and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a spice to the fun , that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without pulling for dear life , and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing . Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself , so loungingly managed his steering - oar , and so broadly gaped -- open - mouthed at times -- that the mere sight of such a yawning commander , by sheer force of contrast , acted like a charm upon the crew . Then again , Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists , whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous , as to put all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them .

TASHTEGO . ( QUIETLY SMOKING ) That ' s a white man ; he calls that fun : humph ! I save my sweat .

" With what ?" shouted I .

The Dart .

It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman , that a most significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod ' s crew ; an event most lamentable ; and which ended in providing the sometimes madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own .

But no more of this blubbering now , we are going a - whaling , and there is plenty of that yet to come . Let us scrape the ice from our frosted feet , and see what sort of a place this " Spouter " may be .

I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia ; expressing the idea very plainly , so that he could take it in . He said no ; only upon one memorable occasion . It was after a great feast given by his father the king , on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o ' clock in the afternoon , and all cooked and eaten that very evening .

But before going further , it is important to mention here , that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance , yet it is seldom done ; and when done , is still less frequently successful , on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as compared with the lance , which in effect become serious drawbacks . As a general thing , therefore , you must first get fast to a whale , before any pitchpoling comes into play .

' Twas not so hard a task . I thought to find one stubborn , at the least ; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels , and they revolve . Or , if you will , like so many ant - hills of powder , they all stand before me ; and I their match . Oh , hard ! that to fire others , the match itself must needs be wasting ! What I ' ve dared , I ' ve willed ; and what I ' ve willed , I ' ll do ! They think me mad -- Starbuck does ; but I ' m demoniac , I am madness maddened ! That wild madness that ' s only calm to comprehend itself ! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered ; and -- Aye ! I lost this leg . I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer . Now , then , be the prophet and the fulfiller one . That ' s more than ye , ye great gods , ever were . I laugh and hoot at ye , ye cricket - players , ye pugilists , ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes ! I will not say as schoolboys do to bullies -- Take some one of your own size ; don ' t pommel ME ! No , ye ' ve knocked me down , and I am up again ; but YE have run and hidden . Come forth from behind your cotton bags ! I have no long gun to reach ye . Come , Ahab ' s compliments to ye ; come and see if ye can swerve me . Swerve me ? ye cannot swerve me , else ye swerve yourselves ! man has ye there . Swerve me ? The path to my fixed purpose is laid with iron rails , whereon my soul is grooved to run . Over unsounded gorges , through the rifled hearts of mountains , under torrents ' beds , unerringly I rush ! Naught ' s an obstacle , naught ' s an angle to the iron way !

" No , no , no ; I wasn ' t aware of that ," said Elijah , slowly and wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg , with the most unaccountable glances .

Thus much being said , attend now , I pray you , to that marvellous and -- in this particular instance -- almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Whale ' s great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped .

" No , cook ; go on , go on ."

" Man overboard !" cried Daggoo , who amid the general consternation first came to his senses . " Swing the bucket this way !" and putting one foot into it , so as the better to secure his slippery hand - hold on the whip itself , the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head , almost before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom . Meantime , there was a terrible tumult . Looking over the side , they saw the before lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea , as if that moment seized with some momentous idea ; whereas it was only the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which he had sunk ." Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg -- that ' s who ye are speaking to , young man . It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted out for the voyage , and supplied with all her needs , including crew . We are part owners and agents . But as I was going to say , if thou wantest to know what whaling is , as thou tellest ye do , I can put ye in a way of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it , past backing out . Clap eye on Captain Ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he has only one leg ."

I will now refer you to Langsdorff ' s Voyages for a little circumstance in point , peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof . Langsdorff , you must know by the way , was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern ' s famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century . Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter :

Meantime , they hauled more and more upon their lines , till close flanking him on both sides , Stubb answered Flask with lance for lance ; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went , while the multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale ' s body , rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled , thirstily drinking at every new gash , as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains that poured from the smitten rock .

" God bless ye , and have ye in His holy keeping , men ," murmured old Bildad , almost incoherently . " I hope ye ' ll have fine weather now , so that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye -- a pleasant sun is all he needs , and ye ' ll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go . Be careful in the hunt , ye mates . Don ' t stave the boats needlessly , ye harpooneers ; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent . within the year . Don ' t forget your prayers , either . Mr . Starbuck , mind that cooper don ' t waste the spare staves . Oh ! the sail - needles are in the green locker ! Don ' t whale it too much a ' Lord ' s days , men ; but don ' t miss a fair chance either , that ' s rejecting Heaven ' s good gifts . Have an eye to the molasses tierce , Mr . Stubb ; it was a little leaky , I thought . If ye touch at the islands , Mr . Flask , beware of fornication . Good - bye , good - bye ! Don ' t keep that cheese too long down in the hold , Mr . Starbuck ; it ' ll spoil . Be careful with the butter -- twenty cents the pound it was , and mind ye , if --"

It was during the more pleasant weather , that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast - head came round .

" Cough be damned ! Pass along that return bucket ."

" Come hither to me -- hither , hither ," said Peleg , with a significance in his eye that almost startled me . " Look ye , lad ; never say that on board the Pequod . Never say it anywhere . Captain Ahab did not name himself . ' Twas a foolish , ignorant whim of his crazy , widowed mother , who died when he was only a twelvemonth old . And yet the old squaw Tistig , at Gayhead , said that the name would somehow prove prophetic . And , perhaps , other fools like her may tell thee the same . I wish to warn thee . It ' s a lie . I know Captain Ahab well ; I ' ve sailed with him as mate years ago ; I know what he is -- a good man -- not a pious , good man , like Bildad , but a swearing good man -- something like me -- only there ' s a good deal more of him . Aye , aye , I know that he was never very jolly ; and I know that on the passage home , he was a little out of his mind for a spell ; but it was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump that brought that about , as any one might see . I know , too , that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale , he ' s been a kind of moody -- desperate moody , and savage sometimes ; but that will all pass off . And once for all , let me tell thee and assure thee , young man , it ' s better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one . So good - bye to thee -- and wrong not Captain Ahab , because he happens to have a wicked name . Besides , my boy , he has a wife -- not three voyages wedded -- a sweet , resigned girl . Think of that ; by that sweet girl that old man has a child : hold ye then there can be any utter , hopeless harm in Ahab ? No , no , my lad ; stricken , blasted , if he be , Ahab has his humanities !"

Then , again , in 1825 , Bernard Germain , Count de Lacepede , a great naturalist , published a scientific systemized whale book , wherein are several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan . All these are not only incorrect , but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale ( that is to say , the Right whale ), even Scoresby , a long experienced man as touching that species , declares not to have its counterpart in nature .

CHAPTER 59

Look now at Stubb ; a man who from his humorous , deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies , was specially qualified to excel in pitchpoling . Look at him ; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the flying boat ; wrapt in fleecy foam , the towing whale is forty feet ahead . Handling the long lance lightly , glancing twice or thrice along its length to see if it be exactly straight , Stubb whistlingly gathers up the coil of the warp in one hand , so as to secure its free end in his grasp , leaving the rest unobstructed . Then holding the lance full before his waistband ' s middle , he levels it at the whale ; when , covering him with it , he steadily depresses the butt - end in his hand , thereby elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm , fifteen feet in the air . He minds you somewhat of a juggler , balancing a long staff on his chin . Next moment with a rapid , nameless impulse , in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming distance , and quivers in the life spot of the whale . Instead of sparkling water , he now spouts red blood .

" On one occasion I saw two of these monsters ( whales ) probably male and female , slowly swimming , one after the other , within less than a stone ' s throw of the shore " ( Terra Del Fuego ), " over which the beech tree extended its branches ." -- DARWIN ' S VOYAGE OF A NATURALIST .

Now having a night , a day , and still another night following before me in New Bedford , ere I could embark for my destined port , it became a matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile . It was a very dubious - looking , nay , a very dark and dismal night , bitingly cold and cheerless . I knew no one in the place . With anxious grapnels I had sounded my pocket , and only brought up a few pieces of silver ,-- So , wherever you go , Ishmael , said I to myself , as I stood in the middle of a dreary street shouldering my bag , and comparing the gloom towards the north with the darkness towards the south -- wherever in your wisdom you may conclude to lodge for the night , my dear Ishmael , be sure to inquire the price , and don ' t be too particular .

Walking the deck with quick , side - lunging strides , Ahab commanded the t ' gallant sails and royals to be set , and every stunsail spread . The best man in the ship must take the helm . Then , with every mast - head manned , the piled - up craft rolled down before the wind . The strange , upheaving , lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows of so many sails , made the buoyant , hovering deck to feel like air beneath the feet ; while still she rushed along , as if two antagonistic influences were struggling in her -- one to mount direct to heaven , the other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal . And had you watched Ahab ' s face that night , you would have thought that in him also two different things were warring . While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck , every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin - tap . On life and death this old man walked . But though the ship so swiftly sped , and though from every eye , like arrows , the eager glances shot , yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night . Every sailor swore he saw it once , but not a second time .

" We have been at great trouble , and peril , and some expense , and is all that to go to the Duke ' s benefit ; we getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters ?"

Be it said , however , that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species . Where one of that sort go down , twenty Right Whales do . This difference in the species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale ; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton ; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free . But there are instances where , after the lapse of many hours or several days , the sunken whale again rises , more buoyant than in life . But the reason of this is obvious . Gases are generated in him ; he swells to a prodigious magnitude ; becomes a sort of animal balloon . A line - of - battle ship could hardly keep him under then . In the Shore Whaling , on soundings , among the Bays of New Zealand , when a Right Whale gives token of sinking , they fasten buoys to him , with plenty of rope ; so that when the body has gone down , they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again .

I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas , something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale - ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there . It may be worth while , therefore , previously to advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman . It is time to set the world right in this matter , by proving such pictures of the whale all wrong .

CHAPTER 70

" May be ; may be . But it ' s made a wise man of me , Flask . D ' ye see Ahab standing there , sideways looking over the stern ? Well , the best thing you can do , Flask , is to let the old man alone ; never speak to him , whatever he says . Halloa ! What ' s that he shouts ? Hark !"

" Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks , the infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over ; he rears his enormous head , and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him ; he rushes at the boats with his head ; they are propelled before him with vast swiftness , and sometimes utterly destroyed . ... It is a matter of great astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so interesting , and , in a commercial point of view , so important an animal ( as the Sperm Whale ) should have been so entirely neglected , or should have excited so little curiosity among the numerous , and many of them competent observers , that of late years , must have possessed the most abundant and the most convenient opportunities of witnessing their habitudes ." -- THOMAS BEALE ' S HISTORY OF THE SPERM WHALE , 1839 .

But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on board , as she did the last day , with a long oil - ladle in one hand , and a still longer whaling lance in the other . Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward . As for Bildad , he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed , and at every fresh arrival , down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper . Every once in a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den , roaring at the men down the hatchways , roaring up to the riggers at the mast - head , and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam .

It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale ' s prodigious head hanging to the Pequod ' s side . But we must let it continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it . For the present other matters press , and the best we can do now for the head , is to pray heaven the tackles may hold .

" But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct , he kept his own counsel ( at least till all was over ) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles of his heart . He was in Radney the chief mate ' s watch ; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than half way to meet his doom , after the scene at the rigging , he insisted , against the express counsel of the captain , upon resuming the head of his watch at night . Upon this , and one or two other circumstances , Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge .

I considered the matter a moment , and then up stairs we went , and I was ushered into a small room , cold as a clam , and furnished , sure enough , with a prodigious bed , almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep abreast .

The hours wore on ;-- Ahab now shut up within his cabin ; anon , pacing the deck , with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect .

" No , sir ; not yet ," said Stubb , emboldened , " I will not tamely be called a dog , sir ."

CHAPTER 17

ALL . The squall ! the squall ! jump , my jollies ! ( THEY SCATTER .)

" Where - away ?"

Secondly : The ship Union , also of Nantucket , was in the year 1807 totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset , but the authentic particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter , though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it .

But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order , a pale man , with a bandaged head , arrested them -- Radney the chief mate . Ever since the blow , he had lain in his berth ; but that morning , hearing the tumult on the deck , he had crept out , and thus far had watched the whole scene . Such was the state of his mouth , that he could hardly speak ; but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the captain dared not attempt , he snatched the rope and advanced to his pinioned foe .

" Dost know nothing at all about whaling , I dare say -- eh ?

Ere long , from his first visit in the air , he withdrew into his cabin . But after that morning , he was every day visible to the crew ; either standing in his pivot - hole , or seated upon an ivory stool he had ; or heavily walking the deck . As the sky grew less gloomy ; indeed , began to grow a little genial , he became still less and less a recluse ; as if , when the ship had sailed from home , nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded . And , by and by , it came to pass , that he was almost continually in the air ; but , as yet , for all that he said , or perceptibly did , on the at last sunny deck , he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast . But the Pequod was only making a passage now ; not regularly cruising ; nearly all whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to , so that there was little or nothing , out of himself , to employ or excite Ahab , now ; and thus chase away , for that one interval , the clouds that layer upon layer were piled upon his brow , as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon .

" I think I remember some such story as you were telling ," said Flask , when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the ship , " but I can ' t remember where ."

" He wants you to take a glass of wine with him ," said the interpreter .

BOOK I . ( FOLIO ), CHAPTER I . ( SPERM WHALE ).-- This whale , among the English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale , and the Physeter whale , and the Anvil Headed whale , is the present Cachalot of the French , and the Pottsfich of the Germans , and the Macrocephalus of the Long Words . He is , without doubt , the largest inhabitant of the globe ; the most formidable of all whales to encounter ; the most majestic in aspect ; and lastly , by far the most valuable in commerce ; he being the only creature from which that valuable substance , spermaceti , is obtained . All his peculiarities will , in many other places , be enlarged upon . It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do . Philologically considered , it is absurd . Some centuries ago , when the Sperm whale was almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality , and when his oil was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish ; in those days spermaceti , it would seem , was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale . It was the idea also , that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses . In those times , also , spermaceti was exceedingly scarce , not being used for light , but only as an ointment and medicament . It was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb . When , as I opine , in the course of time , the true nature of spermaceti became known , its original name was still retained by the dealers ; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity . And so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti was really derived .

For some time past , though at intervals only , the unaccompanied , secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen . But not all of them knew of his existence ; only a few of them , comparatively , had knowingly seen him ; while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him , was small indeed . For , owing to the large number of whale - cruisers ; the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference , many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes , so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch , to encounter a single news - telling sail of any sort ; the inordinate length of each separate voyage ; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home ; all these , with other circumstances , direct and indirect , long obstructed the spread through the whole world - wide whaling - fleet of the special individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick . It was hardly to be doubted , that several vessels reported to have encountered , at such or such a time , or on such or such a meridian , a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity , which whale , after doing great mischief to his assailants , had completely escaped them ; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption , I say , that the whale in question must have been no other than Moby Dick . Yet as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not unfrequent instances of great ferocity , cunning , and malice in the monster attacked ; therefore it was , that those who by accident ignorantly gave battle to Moby Dick ; such hunters , perhaps , for the most part , were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred , more , as it were , to the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large , than to the individual cause . In that way , mostly , the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded .

" Queequeg no care what god made him shark ," said the savage , agonizingly lifting his hand up and down ; " wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god ; but de god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin ."

Wet , drenched through , and shivering cold , despairing of ship or boat , we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on . The mist still spread over the sea , the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat . Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet , hollowing his hand to his ear . We all heard a faint creaking , as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by the storm . The sound came nearer and nearer ; the thick mists were dimly parted by a huge , vague form . Affrighted , we all sprang into the sea as the ship at last loomed into view , bearing right down upon us within a distance of not much more than its length .

Even as it was , I thought something of slipping out of the window , but it was the second floor back . I am no coward , but what to make of this head - peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension . Ignorance is the parent of fear , and being completely nonplussed and confounded about the stranger , I confess I was now as much afraid of him as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of night . In fact , I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then to address him , and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed inexplicable in him .

" No ," said Peleg , " and he hasn ' t been baptized right either , or it would have washed some of that devil ' s blue off his face ."

" A mariner sat in the shrouds one night , The wind was piping free ; Now bright , now dimmed , was the moonlight pale , And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale , As it floundered in the sea ." -- ELIZABETH OAKES SMITH .

The Castaway .

" The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the water - works at London Bridge , and the water roaring in its passage through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood gushing from the whale ' s heart ." -- PALEY ' S THEOLOGY .

With memories like these in him , and , moreover , given to a certain superstitiousness , as has been said ; the courage of this Starbuck which could , nevertheless , still flourish , must indeed have been extreme . But it was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized , and with such terrible experiences and remembrances as he had ; it was not in nature that these things should fail in latently engendering an element in him , which , under suitable circumstances , would break out from its confinement , and burn all his courage up . And brave as he might be , it was that sort of bravery chiefly , visible in some intrepid men , which , while generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas , or winds , or whales , or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world , yet cannot withstand those more terrific , because more spiritual terrors , which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged and mighty man .

Ship and boat diverged ; the cold , damp night breeze blew between ; a screaming gull flew overhead ; the two hulls wildly rolled ; we gave three heavy - hearted cheers , and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic .

" Who ' s Old Thunder ?" said I , again riveted with the insane earnestness of his manner .

" Good night , landlord ," said I , " you may go ."

"' Will you be so good as to bring the priest also , Don ?'

" Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him ; One would think the deep to be hoary ." -- JOB .

CHAPTER 53

Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me , I had noticed that the seamen at the main and mizzen - mast - heads were already drowsy . So that at last all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars , and for every swing that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman . The waves , too , nodded their indolent crests ; and across the wide trance of the sea , east nodded to west , and the sun over all .

Next morning , Monday , after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber , for a block , I settled my own and comrade ' s bill ; using , however , my comrade ' s money . The grinning landlord , as well as the boarders , seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between me and Queequeg -- especially as Peter Coffin ' s cock and bull stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person whom I now companied with .

As he mounted the deck , Ahab abruptly accosted him , without at all heeding what he had in his hand ; but in his broken lingo , the German soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale ; immediately turning the conversation to his lamp - feeder and oil can , with some remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in profound darkness -- his last drop of Bremen oil being gone , and not a single flying - fish yet captured to supply the deficiency ; concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically called a CLEAN one ( that is , an empty one ), well deserving the name of Jungfrau or the Virgin .

The Prophet .

Every whale - ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships , whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed , depends upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans . Thus , most letters never reach their mark ; and many are only received after attaining an age of two or three years or more .

Though many of the whales , as has been said , were in violent motion , yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor retreated , but collectively remained in one place . As is customary in those cases , the boats at once separated , each making for some one lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal . In about three minutes ' time , Queequeg ' s harpoon was flung ; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces , and then running away with us like light , steered straight for the heart of the herd . Though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such circumstances , is in no wise unprecedented ; and indeed is almost always more or less anticipated ; yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery . For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal , you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a delirious throb .

Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo , a gigantic , coal - black negro - savage , with a lion - like tread -- an Ahasuerus to behold . Suspended from his ears were two golden hoops , so large that the sailors called them ring - bolts , and would talk of securing the top - sail halyards to them . In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler , lying in a lonely bay on his native coast . And never having been anywhere in the world but in Africa , Nantucket , and the pagan harbors most frequented by whalemen ; and having now led for many years the bold life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what manner of men they shipped ; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues , and erect as a giraffe , moved about the decks in all the pomp of six feet five in his socks . There was a corporeal humility in looking up at him ; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress . Curious to tell , this imperial negro , Ahasuerus Daggoo , was the Squire of little Flask , who looked like a chess - man beside him . As for the residue of the Pequod ' s company , be it said , that at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the mast employed in the American whale fishery , are Americans born , though pretty nearly all the officers are . Herein it is the same with the American whale fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies , and the engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and Railroads . The same , I say , because in all these cases the native American liberally provides the brains , the rest of the world as generously supplying the muscles . No small number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores , where the outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores . In like manner , the Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London , put in at the Shetland Islands , to receive the full complement of their crew . Upon the passage homewards , they drop them there again . How it is , there is no telling , but Islanders seem to make the best whalemen . They were nearly all Islanders in the Pequod , ISOLATOES too , I call such , not acknowledging the common continent of men , but each ISOLATO living on a separate continent of his own . Yet now , federated along one keel , what a set these Isolatoes were ! An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles of the sea , and all the ends of the earth , accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay the world ' s grievances before that bar from which not very many of them ever come back . Black Little Pip -- he never did -- oh , no ! he went before . Poor Alabama boy ! On the grim Pequod ' s forecastle , ye shall ere long see him , beating his tambourine ; prelusive of the eternal time , when sent for , to the great quarter - deck on high , he was bid strike in with angels , and beat his tambourine in glory ; called a coward here , hailed a hero there !

Coffin ?-- Spouter ?-- Rather ominous in that particular connexion , thought I . But it is a common name in Nantucket , they say , and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there . As the light looked so dim , and the place , for the time , looked quiet enough , and the dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt district , and as the swinging sign had a poverty - stricken sort of creak to it , I thought that here was the very spot for cheap lodgings , and the best of pea coffee .

Almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enormous mass dropped into the sea , like Niagara ' s Table - Rock into the whirlpool ; the suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it , to far down her glittering copper ; and all caught their breath , as half swinging -- now over the sailors ' heads , and now over the water -- Daggoo , through a thick mist of spray , was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles , while poor , buried - alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea ! But hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away , when a naked figure with a boarding - sword in his hand , was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks . The next , a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue . One packed rush was made to the side , and every eye counted every ripple , as moment followed moment , and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen . Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside , and pushed a little off from the ship .

" Do with it ? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home ;-- what else ?"

Sunset .

" Broke ," said I --" BROKE , do you mean ?"

" Woo - hoo ! Wa - hee !" screamed the Gay - Header in reply , raising some old war - whoop to the skies ; as every oarsman in the strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading stroke which the eager Indian gave .

" Aye , aye , I thought so . Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship ."

Folding back the counterpane , I stooped over the bed . Though none of the most elegant , it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well . I then glanced round the room ; and besides the bedstead and centre table , could see no other furniture belonging to the place , but a rude shelf , the four walls , and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale . Of things not properly belonging to the room , there was a hammock lashed up , and thrown upon the floor in one corner ; also a large seaman ' s bag , containing the harpooneer ' s wardrobe , no doubt in lieu of a land trunk . Likewise , there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf over the fire - place , and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed .

Heads or Tails .

Bethink yourself also of another thing . When two large , loaded Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks , what do the sailors do ? They do not suspend between them , at the point of coming contact , any merely hard substance , like iron or wood . No , they hold there a large , round wad of tow and cork , enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox - hide . That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow - bars . By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at . But supplementary to this , it has hypothetically occurred to me , that as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them , capable , at will , of distension or contraction ; and as the Sperm Whale , as far as I know , has no such provision in him ; considering , too , the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the surface , and anon swims with it high elevated out of the water ; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope ; considering the unique interior of his head ; it has hypothetically occurred to me , I say , that those mystical lung - celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with the outer air , so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and contraction . If this be so , fancy the irresistibleness of that might , to which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes .

" You said up there , didn ' t you ? and now look yourself , and see where your tongs are pointing . But , perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber ' s hole , cook ; but , no , no , cook , you don ' t get there , except you go the regular way , round by the rigging . It ' s a ticklish business , but must be done , or else it ' s no go . But none of us are in heaven yet . Drop your tongs , cook , and hear my orders . Do ye hear ? Hold your hat in one hand , and clap t ' other a ' top of your heart , when I ' m giving my orders , cook . What ! that your heart , there ?-- that ' s your gizzard ! Aloft ! aloft !-- that ' s it -- now you have it . Hold it there now , and pay attention ."

" On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie , Don ; but -- I crave your courtesy -- may be , you shall soon hear further of all that . Now , gentlemen , in square - sail brigs and three - masted ships , well - nigh as large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far Manilla ; this Lakeman , in the land - locked heart of our America , had yet been nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly connected with the open ocean . For in their interflowing aggregate , those grand fresh - water seas of ours ,-- Erie , and Ontario , and Huron , and Superior , and Michigan ,-- possess an ocean - like expansiveness , with many of the ocean ' s noblest traits ; with many of its rimmed varieties of races and of climes . They contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles , even as the Polynesian waters do ; in large part , are shored by two great contrasting nations , as the Atlantic is ; they furnish long maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East , dotted all round their banks ; here and there are frowned upon by batteries , and by the goat - like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw ; they have heard the fleet thunderings of naval victories ; at intervals , they yield their beaches to wild barbarians , whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams ; for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests , where the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies ; those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey , and silken creatures whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors ; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland , as well as Winnebago villages ; they float alike the full - rigged merchant ship , the armed cruiser of the State , the steamer , and the beech canoe ; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as direful as any that lash the salted wave ; they know what shipwrecks are , for out of sight of land , however inland , they have drowned full many a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew . Thus , gentlemen , though an inlander , Steelkilt was wild - ocean born , and wild - ocean nurtured ; as much of an audacious mariner as any . And for Radney , though in his infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach , to nurse at his maternal sea ; though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific ; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods seaman , fresh from the latitudes of buck - horn handled bowie - knives . Yet was this Nantucketer a man with some good - hearted traits ; and this Lakeman , a mariner , who though a sort of devil indeed , might yet by inflexible firmness , only tempered by that common decency of human recognition which is the meanest slave ' s right ; thus treated , this Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile . At all events , he had proved so thus far ; but Radney was doomed and made mad , and Steelkilt -- but , gentlemen , you shall hear .

Instantly the captain ran forward , and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the cutting - tackles , and at once cast loose the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship .

Another thing . Flask was the last person down at the dinner , and Flask is the first man up . Consider ! For hereby Flask ' s dinner was badly jammed in point of time . Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him ; and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear . If Stubb even , who is but a peg higher than Flask , happens to have but a small appetite , and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast , then Flask must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day ; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck . Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private , that ever since he had arisen to the dignity of an officer , from that moment he had never known what it was to be otherwise than hungry , more or less . For what he ate did not so much relieve his hunger , as keep it immortal in him . Peace and satisfaction , thought Flask , have for ever departed from my stomach . I am an officer ; but , how I wish I could fish a bit of old - fashioned beef in the forecastle , as I used to when I was before the mast . There ' s the fruits of promotion now ; there ' s the vanity of glory : there ' s the insanity of life ! Besides , if it were so that any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask ' s official capacity , all that sailor had to do , in order to obtain ample vengeance , was to go aft at dinner - time , and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky - light , sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab .

Thus the whale - line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils , twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction . All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions ; so that to the timid eye of the landsman , they seem as Indian jugglers , with the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs . Nor can any son of mortal woman , for the first time , seat himself amid those hempen intricacies , and while straining his utmost at the oar , bethink him that at any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted , and all these horrible contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings ; he cannot be thus circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones to quiver in him like a shaken jelly . Yet habit -- strange thing ! what cannot habit accomplish ?-- Gayer sallies , more merry mirth , better jokes , and brighter repartees , you never heard over your mahogany , than you will hear over the half - inch white cedar of the whale - boat , when thus hung in hangman ' s nooses ; and , like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward , the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death , with a halter around every neck , as you may say .

" Ah , my dear fellow , you can ' t fool us that way -- you can ' t fool us . It is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him ."

" WHALE . ... It is more immediately from the Dut . and Ger . WALLEN ; A . S . WALW - IAN , to roll , to wallow ." -- RICHARDSON ' S DICTIONARY

So fare thee well , poor devil of a Sub - Sub , whose commentator I am . Thou belongest to that hopeless , sallow tribe which no wine of this world will ever warm ; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy - strong ; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit , and feel poor - devilish , too ; and grow convivial upon tears ; and say to them bluntly , with full eyes and empty glasses , and in not altogether unpleasant sadness -- Give it up , Sub - Subs ! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world , by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless ! Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye ! But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal - mast with your hearts ; for your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven - storied heavens , and making refugees of long - pampered Gabriel , Michael , and Raphael , against your coming . Here ye strike but splintered hearts together -- there , ye shall strike unsplinterable glasses !

" Do you is all sharks , and by natur wery woracious , yet I zay to you , fellow - critters , dat dat woraciousness --' top dat dam slappin ' ob de tail ! How you tink to hear , spose you keep up such a dam slappin ' and bitin ' dare ?"

Now comes the Baling of the Case . But to comprehend it aright , you must know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated upon .

All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air . But it bade fair to outstrip them ; it flew on and on , as a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the hills .

The Specksynder .

" Mrs . Hussey ," said I , " he ' s ALIVE at all events ; so leave us , if you please , and I will see to this strange affair myself ."

PORTUGUESE SAILOR . How the sea rolls swashing ' gainst the side ! Stand by for reefing , hearties ! the winds are just crossing swords , pell - mell they ' ll go lunging presently .

But there was no time for shuddering , for now the savage went about something that completely fascinated my attention , and convinced me that he must indeed be a heathen . Going to his heavy grego , or wrapall , or dreadnaught , which he had previously hung on a chair , he fumbled in the pockets , and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch on its back , and exactly the colour of a three days ' old Congo baby . Remembering the embalmed head , at first I almost thought that this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner . But seeing that it was not at all limber , and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony , I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol , which indeed it proved to be . For now the savage goes up to the empty fire - place , and removing the papered fire - board , sets up this little hunch - backed image , like a tenpin , between the andirons . The chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty , so that I thought this fire - place made a very appropriate little shrine or chapel for his Congo idol .

"' What are you making there ?' said a shipmate .

Returning from my first morning stroll , I again sallied out upon this special errand . The sky had changed from clear , sunny cold , to driving sleet and mist . Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called bearskin , I fought my way against the stubborn storm . Entering , I found a small scattered congregation of sailors , and sailors ' wives and widows . A muffled silence reigned , only broken at times by the shrieks of the storm . Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from the other , as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable . The chaplain had not yet arrived ; and there these silent islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets , with black borders , masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit . Three of them ran something like the following , but I do not pretend to quote :--

Tashtego stood in the bows . He was full of the fire of the hunt . He hated Pip for a poltroon . Snatching the boat - knife from its sheath , he suspended its sharp edge over the line , and turning towards Stubb , exclaimed interrogatively , " Cut ?" Meantime Pip ' s blue , choked face plainly looked , Do , for God ' s sake ! All passed in a flash . In less than half a minute , this entire thing happened .

CHAPTER 60

" Who - e debel you ?" -- he at last said --" you no speak - e , dam - me , I kill - e ." And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the dark .

Stubb ' s exordium to his crew is given here at large , because he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general , and especially in inculcating the religion of rowing . But you must not suppose from this specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with his congregation . Not at all ; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity . He would say the most terrific things to his crew , in a tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury , and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a spice to the fun , that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without pulling for dear life , and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing . Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself , so loungingly managed his steering - oar , and so broadly gaped -- open - mouthed at times -- that the mere sight of such a yawning commander , by sheer force of contrast , acted like a charm upon the crew . Then again , Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists , whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous , as to put all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them .

TASHTEGO . ( QUIETLY SMOKING ) That ' s a white man ; he calls that fun : humph ! I save my sweat .

" With what ?" shouted I .

The Dart .

It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman , that a most significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod ' s crew ; an event most lamentable ; and which ended in providing the sometimes madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own .

But no more of this blubbering now , we are going a - whaling , and there is plenty of that yet to come . Let us scrape the ice from our frosted feet , and see what sort of a place this " Spouter " may be .

I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia ; expressing the idea very plainly , so that he could take it in . He said no ; only upon one memorable occasion . It was after a great feast given by his father the king , on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o ' clock in the afternoon , and all cooked and eaten that very evening .

But before going further , it is important to mention here , that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance , yet it is seldom done ; and when done , is still less frequently successful , on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as compared with the lance , which in effect become serious drawbacks . As a general thing , therefore , you must first get fast to a whale , before any pitchpoling comes into play .

' Twas not so hard a task . I thought to find one stubborn , at the least ; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels , and they revolve . Or , if you will , like so many ant - hills of powder , they all stand before me ; and I their match . Oh , hard ! that to fire others , the match itself must needs be wasting ! What I ' ve dared , I ' ve willed ; and what I ' ve willed , I ' ll do ! They think me mad -- Starbuck does ; but I ' m demoniac , I am madness maddened ! That wild madness that ' s only calm to comprehend itself ! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered ; and -- Aye ! I lost this leg . I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer . Now , then , be the prophet and the fulfiller one . That ' s more than ye , ye great gods , ever were . I laugh and hoot at ye , ye cricket - players , ye pugilists , ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes ! I will not say as schoolboys do to bullies -- Take some one of your own size ; don ' t pommel ME ! No , ye ' ve knocked me down , and I am up again ; but YE have run and hidden . Come forth from behind your cotton bags ! I have no long gun to reach ye . Come , Ahab ' s compliments to ye ; come and see if ye can swerve me . Swerve me ? ye cannot swerve me , else ye swerve yourselves ! man has ye there . Swerve me ? The path to my fixed purpose is laid with iron rails , whereon my soul is grooved to run . Over unsounded gorges , through the rifled hearts of mountains , under torrents ' beds , unerringly I rush ! Naught ' s an obstacle , naught ' s an angle to the iron way !

" No , no , no ; I wasn ' t aware of that ," said Elijah , slowly and wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg , with the most unaccountable glances .

Thus much being said , attend now , I pray you , to that marvellous and -- in this particular instance -- almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Whale ' s great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped .

" No , cook ; go on , go on ."

" Man overboard !" cried Daggoo , who amid the general consternation first came to his senses . " Swing the bucket this way !" and putting one foot into it , so as the better to secure his slippery hand - hold on the whip itself , the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head , almost before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom . Meantime , there was a terrible tumult . Looking over the side , they saw the before lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea , as if that moment seized with some momentous idea ; whereas it was only the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which he had sunk ." Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg -- that ' s who ye are speaking to , young man . It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted out for the voyage , and supplied with all her needs , including crew . We are part owners and agents . But as I was going to say , if thou wantest to know what whaling is , as thou tellest ye do , I can put ye in a way of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it , past backing out . Clap eye on Captain Ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he has only one leg ."

I will now refer you to Langsdorff ' s Voyages for a little circumstance in point , peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof . Langsdorff , you must know by the way , was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern ' s famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century . Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter :

Meantime , they hauled more and more upon their lines , till close flanking him on both sides , Stubb answered Flask with lance for lance ; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went , while the multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale ' s body , rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled , thirstily drinking at every new gash , as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains that poured from the smitten rock .

" God bless ye , and have ye in His holy keeping , men ," murmured old Bildad , almost incoherently . " I hope ye ' ll have fine weather now , so that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye -- a pleasant sun is all he needs , and ye ' ll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go . Be careful in the hunt , ye mates . Don ' t stave the boats needlessly , ye harpooneers ; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent . within the year . Don ' t forget your prayers , either . Mr . Starbuck , mind that cooper don ' t waste the spare staves . Oh ! the sail - needles are in the green locker ! Don ' t whale it too much a ' Lord ' s days , men ; but don ' t miss a fair chance either , that ' s rejecting Heaven ' s good gifts . Have an eye to the molasses tierce , Mr . Stubb ; it was a little leaky , I thought . If ye touch at the islands , Mr . Flask , beware of fornication . Good - bye , good - bye ! Don ' t keep that cheese too long down in the hold , Mr . Starbuck ; it ' ll spoil . Be careful with the butter -- twenty cents the pound it was , and mind ye , if --"

It was during the more pleasant weather , that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast - head came round .

" Cough be damned ! Pass along that return bucket ."

" Come hither to me -- hither , hither ," said Peleg , with a significance in his eye that almost startled me . " Look ye , lad ; never say that on board the Pequod . Never say it anywhere . Captain Ahab did not name himself . ' Twas a foolish , ignorant whim of his crazy , widowed mother , who died when he was only a twelvemonth old . And yet the old squaw Tistig , at Gayhead , said that the name would somehow prove prophetic . And , perhaps , other fools like her may tell thee the same . I wish to warn thee . It ' s a lie . I know Captain Ahab well ; I ' ve sailed with him as mate years ago ; I know what he is -- a good man -- not a pious , good man , like Bildad , but a swearing good man -- something like me -- only there ' s a good deal more of him . Aye , aye , I know that he was never very jolly ; and I know that on the passage home , he was a little out of his mind for a spell ; but it was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump that brought that about , as any one might see . I know , too , that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale , he ' s been a kind of moody -- desperate moody , and savage sometimes ; but that will all pass off . And once for all , let me tell thee and assure thee , young man , it ' s better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one . So good - bye to thee -- and wrong not Captain Ahab , because he happens to have a wicked name . Besides , my boy , he has a wife -- not three voyages wedded -- a sweet , resigned girl . Think of that ; by that sweet girl that old man has a child : hold ye then there can be any utter , hopeless harm in Ahab ? No , no , my lad ; stricken , blasted , if he be , Ahab has his humanities !"

Then , again , in 1825 , Bernard Germain , Count de Lacepede , a great naturalist , published a scientific systemized whale book , wherein are several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan . All these are not only incorrect , but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale ( that is to say , the Right whale ), even Scoresby , a long experienced man as touching that species , declares not to have its counterpart in nature .

CHAPTER 59

Look now at Stubb ; a man who from his humorous , deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies , was specially qualified to excel in pitchpoling . Look at him ; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the flying boat ; wrapt in fleecy foam , the towing whale is forty feet ahead . Handling the long lance lightly , glancing twice or thrice along its length to see if it be exactly straight , Stubb whistlingly gathers up the coil of the warp in one hand , so as to secure its free end in his grasp , leaving the rest unobstructed . Then holding the lance full before his waistband ' s middle , he levels it at the whale ; when , covering him with it , he steadily depresses the butt - end in his hand , thereby elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm , fifteen feet in the air . He minds you somewhat of a juggler , balancing a long staff on his chin . Next moment with a rapid , nameless impulse , in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming distance , and quivers in the life spot of the whale . Instead of sparkling water , he now spouts red blood .

" On one occasion I saw two of these monsters ( whales ) probably male and female , slowly swimming , one after the other , within less than a stone ' s throw of the shore " ( Terra Del Fuego ), " over which the beech tree extended its branches ." -- DARWIN ' S VOYAGE OF A NATURALIST .

Now having a night , a day , and still another night following before me in New Bedford , ere I could embark for my destined port , it became a matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile . It was a very dubious - looking , nay , a very dark and dismal night , bitingly cold and cheerless . I knew no one in the place . With anxious grapnels I had sounded my pocket , and only brought up a few pieces of silver ,-- So , wherever you go , Ishmael , said I to myself , as I stood in the middle of a dreary street shouldering my bag , and comparing the gloom towards the north with the darkness towards the south -- wherever in your wisdom you may conclude to lodge for the night , my dear Ishmael , be sure to inquire the price , and don ' t be too particular .

Walking the deck with quick , side - lunging strides , Ahab commanded the t ' gallant sails and royals to be set , and every stunsail spread . The best man in the ship must take the helm . Then , with every mast - head manned , the piled - up craft rolled down before the wind . The strange , upheaving , lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows of so many sails , made the buoyant , hovering deck to feel like air beneath the feet ; while still she rushed along , as if two antagonistic influences were struggling in her -- one to mount direct to heaven , the other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal . And had you watched Ahab ' s face that night , you would have thought that in him also two different things were warring . While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck , every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin - tap . On life and death this old man walked . But though the ship so swiftly sped , and though from every eye , like arrows , the eager glances shot , yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night . Every sailor swore he saw it once , but not a second time .

" We have been at great trouble , and peril , and some expense , and is all that to go to the Duke ' s benefit ; we getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters ?"

Be it said , however , that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species . Where one of that sort go down , twenty Right Whales do . This difference in the species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale ; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton ; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free . But there are instances where , after the lapse of many hours or several days , the sunken whale again rises , more buoyant than in life . But the reason of this is obvious . Gases are generated in him ; he swells to a prodigious magnitude ; becomes a sort of animal balloon . A line - of - battle ship could hardly keep him under then . In the Shore Whaling , on soundings , among the Bays of New Zealand , when a Right Whale gives token of sinking , they fasten buoys to him , with plenty of rope ; so that when the body has gone down , they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again .

I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas , something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale - ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there . It may be worth while , therefore , previously to advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman . It is time to set the world right in this matter , by proving such pictures of the whale all wrong .

CHAPTER 70

" May be ; may be . But it ' s made a wise man of me , Flask . D ' ye see Ahab standing there , sideways looking over the stern ? Well , the best thing you can do , Flask , is to let the old man alone ; never speak to him , whatever he says . Halloa ! What ' s that he shouts ? Hark !"

" Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks , the infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over ; he rears his enormous head , and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him ; he rushes at the boats with his head ; they are propelled before him with vast swiftness , and sometimes utterly destroyed . ... It is a matter of great astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so interesting , and , in a commercial point of view , so important an animal ( as the Sperm Whale ) should have been so entirely neglected , or should have excited so little curiosity among the numerous , and many of them competent observers , that of late years , must have possessed the most abundant and the most convenient opportunities of witnessing their habitudes ." -- THOMAS BEALE ' S HISTORY OF THE SPERM WHALE , 1839 .

But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on board , as she did the last day , with a long oil - ladle in one hand , and a still longer whaling lance in the other . Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward . As for Bildad , he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed , and at every fresh arrival , down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper . Every once in a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den , roaring at the men down the hatchways , roaring up to the riggers at the mast - head , and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam .

It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale ' s prodigious head hanging to the Pequod ' s side . But we must let it continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it . For the present other matters press , and the best we can do now for the head , is to pray heaven the tackles may hold .

" But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct , he kept his own counsel ( at least till all was over ) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles of his heart . He was in Radney the chief mate ' s watch ; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than half way to meet his doom , after the scene at the rigging , he insisted , against the express counsel of the captain , upon resuming the head of his watch at night . Upon this , and one or two other circumstances , Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge .

I considered the matter a moment , and then up stairs we went , and I was ushered into a small room , cold as a clam , and furnished , sure enough , with a prodigious bed , almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep abreast .

The hours wore on ;-- Ahab now shut up within his cabin ; anon , pacing the deck , with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect .

" No , sir ; not yet ," said Stubb , emboldened , " I will not tamely be called a dog , sir ."

CHAPTER 17

ALL . The squall ! the squall ! jump , my jollies ! ( THEY SCATTER .)

" Where - away ?"

Secondly : The ship Union , also of Nantucket , was in the year 1807 totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset , but the authentic particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter , though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it .

But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order , a pale man , with a bandaged head , arrested them -- Radney the chief mate . Ever since the blow , he had lain in his berth ; but that morning , hearing the tumult on the deck , he had crept out , and thus far had watched the whole scene . Such was the state of his mouth , that he could hardly speak ; but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the captain dared not attempt , he snatched the rope and advanced to his pinioned foe .

" Dost know nothing at all about whaling , I dare say -- eh ?

Ere long , from his first visit in the air , he withdrew into his cabin . But after that morning , he was every day visible to the crew ; either standing in his pivot - hole , or seated upon an ivory stool he had ; or heavily walking the deck . As the sky grew less gloomy ; indeed , began to grow a little genial , he became still less and less a recluse ; as if , when the ship had sailed from home , nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded . And , by and by , it came to pass , that he was almost continually in the air ; but , as yet , for all that he said , or perceptibly did , on the at last sunny deck , he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast . But the Pequod was only making a passage now ; not regularly cruising ; nearly all whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to , so that there was little or nothing , out of himself , to employ or excite Ahab , now ; and thus chase away , for that one interval , the clouds that layer upon layer were piled upon his brow , as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon .

" I think I remember some such story as you were telling ," said Flask , when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the ship , " but I can ' t remember where ."

" He wants you to take a glass of wine with him ," said the interpreter .

BOOK I . ( FOLIO ), CHAPTER I . ( SPERM WHALE ).-- This whale , among the English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale , and the Physeter whale , and the Anvil Headed whale , is the present Cachalot of the French , and the Pottsfich of the Germans , and the Macrocephalus of the Long Words . He is , without doubt , the largest inhabitant of the globe ; the most formidable of all whales to encounter ; the most majestic in aspect ; and lastly , by far the most valuable in commerce ; he being the only creature from which that valuable substance , spermaceti , is obtained . All his peculiarities will , in many other places , be enlarged upon . It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do . Philologically considered , it is absurd . Some centuries ago , when the Sperm whale was almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality , and when his oil was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish ; in those days spermaceti , it would seem , was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale . It was the idea also , that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses . In those times , also , spermaceti was exceedingly scarce , not being used for light , but only as an ointment and medicament . It was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb . When , as I opine , in the course of time , the true nature of spermaceti became known , its original name was still retained by the dealers ; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity . And so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti was really derived .

For some time past , though at intervals only , the unaccompanied , secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen . But not all of them knew of his existence ; only a few of them , comparatively , had knowingly seen him ; while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him , was small indeed . For , owing to the large number of whale - cruisers ; the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference , many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes , so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch , to encounter a single news - telling sail of any sort ; the inordinate length of each separate voyage ; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home ; all these , with other circumstances , direct and indirect , long obstructed the spread through the whole world - wide whaling - fleet of the special individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick . It was hardly to be doubted , that several vessels reported to have encountered , at such or such a time , or on such or such a meridian , a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity , which whale , after doing great mischief to his assailants , had completely escaped them ; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption , I say , that the whale in question must have been no other than Moby Dick . Yet as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not unfrequent instances of great ferocity , cunning , and malice in the monster attacked ; therefore it was , that those who by accident ignorantly gave battle to Moby Dick ; such hunters , perhaps , for the most part , were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred , more , as it were , to the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large , than to the individual cause . In that way , mostly , the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded .

" Queequeg no care what god made him shark ," said the savage , agonizingly lifting his hand up and down ; " wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god ; but de god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin ."

Wet , drenched through , and shivering cold , despairing of ship or boat , we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on . The mist still spread over the sea , the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat . Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet , hollowing his hand to his ear . We all heard a faint creaking , as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by the storm . The sound came nearer and nearer ; the thick mists were dimly parted by a huge , vague form . Affrighted , we all sprang into the sea as the ship at last loomed into view , bearing right down upon us within a distance of not much more than its length .

Even as it was , I thought something of slipping out of the window , but it was the second floor back . I am no coward , but what to make of this head - peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension . Ignorance is the parent of fear , and being completely nonplussed and confounded about the stranger , I confess I was now as much afraid of him as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of night . In fact , I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then to address him , and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed inexplicable in him .

" No ," said Peleg , " and he hasn ' t been baptized right either , or it would have washed some of that devil ' s blue off his face ."

" A mariner sat in the shrouds one night , The wind was piping free ; Now bright , now dimmed , was the moonlight pale , And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale , As it floundered in the sea ." -- ELIZABETH OAKES SMITH .

The Castaway .

" The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the water - works at London Bridge , and the water roaring in its passage through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood gushing from the whale ' s heart ." -- PALEY ' S THEOLOGY .

With memories like these in him , and , moreover , given to a certain superstitiousness , as has been said ; the courage of this Starbuck which could , nevertheless , still flourish , must indeed have been extreme . But it was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized , and with such terrible experiences and remembrances as he had ; it was not in nature that these things should fail in latently engendering an element in him , which , under suitable circumstances , would break out from its confinement , and burn all his courage up . And brave as he might be , it was that sort of bravery chiefly , visible in some intrepid men , which , while generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas , or winds , or whales , or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world , yet cannot withstand those more terrific , because more spiritual terrors , which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged and mighty man .

Ship and boat diverged ; the cold , damp night breeze blew between ; a screaming gull flew overhead ; the two hulls wildly rolled ; we gave three heavy - hearted cheers , and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic .

" Who ' s Old Thunder ?" said I , again riveted with the insane earnestness of his manner .

" Good night , landlord ," said I , " you may go ."

"' Will you be so good as to bring the priest also , Don ?'

" Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him ; One would think the deep to be hoary ." -- JOB .

CHAPTER 53

Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me , I had noticed that the seamen at the main and mizzen - mast - heads were already drowsy . So that at last all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars , and for every swing that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman . The waves , too , nodded their indolent crests ; and across the wide trance of the sea , east nodded to west , and the sun over all .

Next morning , Monday , after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber , for a block , I settled my own and comrade ' s bill ; using , however , my comrade ' s money . The grinning landlord , as well as the boarders , seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between me and Queequeg -- especially as Peter Coffin ' s cock and bull stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person whom I now companied with .

As he mounted the deck , Ahab abruptly accosted him , without at all heeding what he had in his hand ; but in his broken lingo , the German soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale ; immediately turning the conversation to his lamp - feeder and oil can , with some remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in profound darkness -- his last drop of Bremen oil being gone , and not a single flying - fish yet captured to supply the deficiency ; concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically called a CLEAN one ( that is , an empty one ), well deserving the name of Jungfrau or the Virgin .

The Prophet .

Every whale - ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships , whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed , depends upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans . Thus , most letters never reach their mark ; and many are only received after attaining an age of two or three years or more .

Though many of the whales , as has been said , were in violent motion , yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor retreated , but collectively remained in one place . As is customary in those cases , the boats at once separated , each making for some one lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal . In about three minutes ' time , Queequeg ' s harpoon was flung ; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces , and then running away with us like light , steered straight for the heart of the herd . Though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such circumstances , is in no wise unprecedented ; and indeed is almost always more or less anticipated ; yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery . For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal , you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a delirious throb .

Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo , a gigantic , coal - black negro - savage , with a lion - like tread -- an Ahasuerus to behold . Suspended from his ears were two golden hoops , so large that the sailors called them ring - bolts , and would talk of securing the top - sail halyards to them . In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler , lying in a lonely bay on his native coast . And never having been anywhere in the world but in Africa , Nantucket , and the pagan harbors most frequented by whalemen ; and having now led for many years the bold life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what manner of men they shipped ; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues , and erect as a giraffe , moved about the decks in all the pomp of six feet five in his socks . There was a corporeal humility in looking up at him ; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress . Curious to tell , this imperial negro , Ahasuerus Daggoo , was the Squire of little Flask , who looked like a chess - man beside him . As for the residue of the Pequod ' s company , be it said , that at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the mast employed in the American whale fishery , are Americans born , though pretty nearly all the officers are . Herein it is the same with the American whale fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies , and the engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and Railroads . The same , I say , because in all these cases the native American liberally provides the brains , the rest of the world as generously supplying the muscles . No small number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores , where the outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores . In like manner , the Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London , put in at the Shetland Islands , to receive the full complement of their crew . Upon the passage homewards , they drop them there again . How it is , there is no telling , but Islanders seem to make the best whalemen . They were nearly all Islanders in the Pequod , ISOLATOES too , I call such , not acknowledging the common continent of men , but each ISOLATO living on a separate continent of his own . Yet now , federated along one keel , what a set these Isolatoes were ! An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles of the sea , and all the ends of the earth , accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay the world ' s grievances before that bar from which not very many of them ever come back . Black Little Pip -- he never did -- oh , no ! he went before . Poor Alabama boy ! On the grim Pequod ' s forecastle , ye shall ere long see him , beating his tambourine ; prelusive of the eternal time , when sent for , to the great quarter - deck on high , he was bid strike in with angels , and beat his tambourine in glory ; called a coward here , hailed a hero there !

Coffin ?-- Spouter ?-- Rather ominous in that particular connexion , thought I . But it is a common name in Nantucket , they say , and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there . As the light looked so dim , and the place , for the time , looked quiet enough , and the dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt district , and as the swinging sign had a poverty - stricken sort of creak to it , I thought that here was the very spot for cheap lodgings , and the best of pea coffee .

Almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enormous mass dropped into the sea , like Niagara ' s Table - Rock into the whirlpool ; the suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it , to far down her glittering copper ; and all caught their breath , as half swinging -- now over the sailors ' heads , and now over the water -- Daggoo , through a thick mist of spray , was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles , while poor , buried - alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea ! But hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away , when a naked figure with a boarding - sword in his hand , was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks . The next , a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue . One packed rush was made to the side , and every eye counted every ripple , as moment followed moment , and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen . Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside , and pushed a little off from the ship .

" Do with it ? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home ;-- what else ?"

Sunset .

" Broke ," said I --" BROKE , do you mean ?"

" Woo - hoo ! Wa - hee !" screamed the Gay - Header in reply , raising some old war - whoop to the skies ; as every oarsman in the strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading stroke which the eager Indian gave .

" Aye , aye , I thought so . Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship ."

Folding back the counterpane , I stooped over the bed . Though none of the most elegant , it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well . I then glanced round the room ; and besides the bedstead and centre table , could see no other furniture belonging to the place , but a rude shelf , the four walls , and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale . Of things not properly belonging to the room , there was a hammock lashed up , and thrown upon the floor in one corner ; also a large seaman ' s bag , containing the harpooneer ' s wardrobe , no doubt in lieu of a land trunk . Likewise , there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf over the fire - place , and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed .

Heads or Tails .

Bethink yourself also of another thing . When two large , loaded Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks , what do the sailors do ? They do not suspend between them , at the point of coming contact , any merely hard substance , like iron or wood . No , they hold there a large , round wad of tow and cork , enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox - hide . That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow - bars . By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at . But supplementary to this , it has hypothetically occurred to me , that as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them , capable , at will , of distension or contraction ; and as the Sperm Whale , as far as I know , has no such provision in him ; considering , too , the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the surface , and anon swims with it high elevated out of the water ; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope ; considering the unique interior of his head ; it has hypothetically occurred to me , I say , that those mystical lung - celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with the outer air , so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and contraction . If this be so , fancy the irresistibleness of that might , to which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes .

" You said up there , didn ' t you ? and now look yourself , and see where your tongs are pointing . But , perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber ' s hole , cook ; but , no , no , cook , you don ' t get there , except you go the regular way , round by the rigging . It ' s a ticklish business , but must be done , or else it ' s no go . But none of us are in heaven yet . Drop your tongs , cook , and hear my orders . Do ye hear ? Hold your hat in one hand , and clap t ' other a ' top of your heart , when I ' m giving my orders , cook . What ! that your heart , there ?-- that ' s your gizzard ! Aloft ! aloft !-- that ' s it -- now you have it . Hold it there now , and pay attention ."

" On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie , Don ; but -- I crave your courtesy -- may be , you shall soon hear further of all that . Now , gentlemen , in square - sail brigs and three - masted ships , well - nigh as large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far Manilla ; this Lakeman , in the land - locked heart of our America , had yet been nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly connected with the open ocean . For in their interflowing aggregate , those grand fresh - water seas of ours ,-- Erie , and Ontario , and Huron , and Superior , and Michigan ,-- possess an ocean - like expansiveness , with many of the ocean ' s noblest traits ; with many of its rimmed varieties of races and of climes . They contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles , even as the Polynesian waters do ; in large part , are shored by two great contrasting nations , as the Atlantic is ; they furnish long maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East , dotted all round their banks ; here and there are frowned upon by batteries , and by the goat - like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw ; they have heard the fleet thunderings of naval victories ; at intervals , they yield their beaches to wild barbarians , whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams ; for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests , where the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies ; those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey , and silken creatures whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors ; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland , as well as Winnebago villages ; they float alike the full - rigged merchant ship , the armed cruiser of the State , the steamer , and the beech canoe ; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as direful as any that lash the salted wave ; they know what shipwrecks are , for out of sight of land , however inland , they have drowned full many a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew . Thus , gentlemen , though an inlander , Steelkilt was wild - ocean born , and wild - ocean nurtured ; as much of an audacious mariner as any . And for Radney , though in his infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach , to nurse at his maternal sea ; though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific ; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods seaman , fresh from the latitudes of buck - horn handled bowie - knives . Yet was this Nantucketer a man with some good - hearted traits ; and this Lakeman , a mariner , who though a sort of devil indeed , might yet by inflexible firmness , only tempered by that common decency of human recognition which is the meanest slave ' s right ; thus treated , this Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile . At all events , he had proved so thus far ; but Radney was doomed and made mad , and Steelkilt -- but , gentlemen , you shall hear .

Instantly the captain ran forward , and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the cutting - tackles , and at once cast loose the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship .

Another thing . Flask was the last person down at the dinner , and Flask is the first man up . Consider ! For hereby Flask ' s dinner was badly jammed in point of time . Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him ; and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear . If Stubb even , who is but a peg higher than Flask , happens to have but a small appetite , and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast , then Flask must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day ; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck . Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private , that ever since he had arisen to the dignity of an officer , from that moment he had never known what it was to be otherwise than hungry , more or less . For what he ate did not so much relieve his hunger , as keep it immortal in him . Peace and satisfaction , thought Flask , have for ever departed from my stomach . I am an officer ; but , how I wish I could fish a bit of old - fashioned beef in the forecastle , as I used to when I was before the mast . There ' s the fruits of promotion now ; there ' s the vanity of glory : there ' s the insanity of life ! Besides , if it were so that any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask ' s official capacity , all that sailor had to do , in order to obtain ample vengeance , was to go aft at dinner - time , and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky - light , sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab .

Thus the whale - line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils , twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction . All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions ; so that to the timid eye of the landsman , they seem as Indian jugglers , with the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs . Nor can any son of mortal woman , for the first time , seat himself amid those hempen intricacies , and while straining his utmost at the oar , bethink him that at any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted , and all these horrible contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings ; he cannot be thus circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones to quiver in him like a shaken jelly . Yet habit -- strange thing ! what cannot habit accomplish ?-- Gayer sallies , more merry mirth , better jokes , and brighter repartees , you never heard over your mahogany , than you will hear over the half - inch white cedar of the whale - boat , when thus hung in hangman ' s nooses ; and , like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward , the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death , with a halter around every neck , as you may say .

" Ah , my dear fellow , you can ' t fool us that way -- you can ' t fool us . It is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him ."

" WHALE . ... It is more immediately from the Dut . and Ger . WALLEN ; A . S . WALW - IAN , to roll , to wallow ." -- RICHARDSON ' S DICTIONARY

So fare thee well , poor devil of a Sub - Sub , whose commentator I am . Thou belongest to that hopeless , sallow tribe which no wine of this world will ever warm ; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy - strong ; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit , and feel poor - devilish , too ; and grow convivial upon tears ; and say to them bluntly , with full eyes and empty glasses , and in not altogether unpleasant sadness -- Give it up , Sub - Subs ! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world , by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless ! Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye ! But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal - mast with your hearts ; for your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven - storied heavens , and making refugees of long - pampered Gabriel , Michael , and Raphael , against your coming . Here ye strike but splintered hearts together -- there , ye shall strike unsplinterable glasses !

" Do you is all sharks , and by natur wery woracious , yet I zay to you , fellow - critters , dat dat woraciousness --' top dat dam slappin ' ob de tail ! How you tink to hear , spose you keep up such a dam slappin ' and bitin ' dare ?"

Now comes the Baling of the Case . But to comprehend it aright , you must know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated upon .

All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air . But it bade fair to outstrip them ; it flew on and on , as a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the hills .

The Specksynder .

" Mrs . Hussey ," said I , " he ' s ALIVE at all events ; so leave us , if you please , and I will see to this strange affair myself ."

PORTUGUESE SAILOR . How the sea rolls swashing ' gainst the side ! Stand by for reefing , hearties ! the winds are just crossing swords , pell - mell they ' ll go lunging presently .

But there was no time for shuddering , for now the savage went about something that completely fascinated my attention , and convinced me that he must indeed be a heathen . Going to his heavy grego , or wrapall , or dreadnaught , which he had previously hung on a chair , he fumbled in the pockets , and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch on its back , and exactly the colour of a three days ' old Congo baby . Remembering the embalmed head , at first I almost thought that this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner . But seeing that it was not at all limber , and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony , I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol , which indeed it proved to be . For now the savage goes up to the empty fire - place , and removing the papered fire - board , sets up this little hunch - backed image , like a tenpin , between the andirons . The chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty , so that I thought this fire - place made a very appropriate little shrine or chapel for his Congo idol .

"' What are you making there ?' said a shipmate .

Returning from my first morning stroll , I again sallied out upon this special errand . The sky had changed from clear , sunny cold , to driving sleet and mist . Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called bearskin , I fought my way against the stubborn storm . Entering , I found a small scattered congregation of sailors , and sailors ' wives and widows . A muffled silence reigned , only broken at times by the shrieks of the storm . Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from the other , as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable . The chaplain had not yet arrived ; and there these silent islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets , with black borders , masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit . Three of them ran something like the following , but I do not pretend to quote :--

Tashtego stood in the bows . He was full of the fire of the hunt . He hated Pip for a poltroon . Snatching the boat - knife from its sheath , he suspended its sharp edge over the line , and turning towards Stubb , exclaimed interrogatively , " Cut ?" Meantime Pip ' s blue , choked face plainly looked , Do , for God ' s sake ! All passed in a flash . In less than half a minute , this entire thing happened .

CHAPTER 60

" Who - e debel you ?" -- he at last said --" you no speak - e , dam - me , I kill - e ." And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the dark .

Stubb ' s exordium to his crew is given here at large , because he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general , and especially in inculcating the religion of rowing . But you must not suppose from this specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with his congregation . Not at all ; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity . He would say the most terrific things to his crew , in a tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury , and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a spice to the fun , that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without pulling for dear life , and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing . Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself , so loungingly managed his steering - oar , and so broadly gaped -- open - mouthed at times -- that the mere sight of such a yawning commander , by sheer force of contrast , acted like a charm upon the crew . Then again , Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists , whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous , as to put all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them .

TASHTEGO . ( QUIETLY SMOKING ) That ' s a white man ; he calls that fun : humph ! I save my sweat .

" With what ?" shouted I .

The Dart .

It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman , that a most significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod ' s crew ; an event most lamentable ; and which ended in providing the sometimes madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own .

But no more of this blubbering now , we are going a - whaling , and there is plenty of that yet to come . Let us scrape the ice from our frosted feet , and see what sort of a place this " Spouter " may be .

I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia ; expressing the idea very plainly , so that he could take it in . He said no ; only upon one memorable occasion . It was after a great feast given by his father the king , on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o ' clock in the afternoon , and all cooked and eaten that very evening .

But before going further , it is important to mention here , that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance , yet it is seldom done ; and when done , is still less frequently successful , on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as compared with the lance , which in effect become serious drawbacks . As a general thing , therefore , you must first get fast to a whale , before any pitchpoling comes into play .

' Twas not so hard a task . I thought to find one stubborn , at the least ; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels , and they revolve . Or , if you will , like so many ant - hills of powder , they all stand before me ; and I their match . Oh , hard ! that to fire others , the match itself must needs be wasting ! What I ' ve dared , I ' ve willed ; and what I ' ve willed , I ' ll do ! They think me mad -- Starbuck does ; but I ' m demoniac , I am madness maddened ! That wild madness that ' s only calm to comprehend itself ! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered ; and -- Aye ! I lost this leg . I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer . Now , then , be the prophet and the fulfiller one . That ' s more than ye , ye great gods , ever were . I laugh and hoot at ye , ye cricket - players , ye pugilists , ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes ! I will not say as schoolboys do to bullies -- Take some one of your own size ; don ' t pommel ME ! No , ye ' ve knocked me down , and I am up again ; but YE have run and hidden . Come forth from behind your cotton bags ! I have no long gun to reach ye . Come , Ahab ' s compliments to ye ; come and see if ye can swerve me . Swerve me ? ye cannot swerve me , else ye swerve yourselves ! man has ye there . Swerve me ? The path to my fixed purpose is laid with iron rails , whereon my soul is grooved to run . Over unsounded gorges , through the rifled hearts of mountains , under torrents ' beds , unerringly I rush ! Naught ' s an obstacle , naught ' s an angle to the iron way !

" No , no , no ; I wasn ' t aware of that ," said Elijah , slowly and wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg , with the most unaccountable glances .

Thus much being said , attend now , I pray you , to that marvellous and -- in this particular instance -- almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Whale ' s great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped .

" No , cook ; go on , go on ."

" Man overboard !" cried Daggoo , who amid the general consternation first came to his senses . " Swing the bucket this way !" and putting one foot into it , so as the better to secure his slippery hand - hold on the whip itself , the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head , almost before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom . Meantime , there was a terrible tumult . Looking over the side , they saw the before lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea , as if that moment seized with some momentous idea ; whereas it was only the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which he had sunk ." Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg -- that ' s who ye are speaking to , young man . It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted out for the voyage , and supplied with all her needs , including crew . We are part owners and agents . But as I was going to say , if thou wantest to know what whaling is , as thou tellest ye do , I can put ye in a way of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it , past backing out . Clap eye on Captain Ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he has only one leg ."

I will now refer you to Langsdorff ' s Voyages for a little circumstance in point , peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof . Langsdorff , you must know by the way , was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern ' s famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century . Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter :

Meantime , they hauled more and more upon their lines , till close flanking him on both sides , Stubb answered Flask with lance for lance ; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went , while the multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale ' s body , rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled , thirstily drinking at every new gash , as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains that poured from the smitten rock .

" God bless ye , and have ye in His holy keeping , men ," murmured old Bildad , almost incoherently . " I hope ye ' ll have fine weather now , so that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye -- a pleasant sun is all he needs , and ye ' ll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go . Be careful in the hunt , ye mates . Don ' t stave the boats needlessly , ye harpooneers ; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent . within the year . Don ' t forget your prayers , either . Mr . Starbuck , mind that cooper don ' t waste the spare staves . Oh ! the sail - needles are in the green locker ! Don ' t whale it too much a ' Lord ' s days , men ; but don ' t miss a fair chance either , that ' s rejecting Heaven ' s good gifts . Have an eye to the molasses tierce , Mr . Stubb ; it was a little leaky , I thought . If ye touch at the islands , Mr . Flask , beware of fornication . Good - bye , good - bye ! Don ' t keep that cheese too long down in the hold , Mr . Starbuck ; it ' ll spoil . Be careful with the butter -- twenty cents the pound it was , and mind ye , if --"

It was during the more pleasant weather , that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast - head came round .

" Cough be damned ! Pass along that return bucket ."

" Come hither to me -- hither , hither ," said Peleg , with a significance in his eye that almost startled me . " Look ye , lad ; never say that on board the Pequod . Never say it anywhere . Captain Ahab did not name himself . ' Twas a foolish , ignorant whim of his crazy , widowed mother , who died when he was only a twelvemonth old . And yet the old squaw Tistig , at Gayhead , said that the name would somehow prove prophetic . And , perhaps , other fools like her may tell thee the same . I wish to warn thee . It ' s a lie . I know Captain Ahab well ; I ' ve sailed with him as mate years ago ; I know what he is -- a good man -- not a pious , good man , like Bildad , but a swearing good man -- something like me -- only there ' s a good deal more of him . Aye , aye , I know that he was never very jolly ; and I know that on the passage home , he was a little out of his mind for a spell ; but it was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump that brought that about , as any one might see . I know , too , that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale , he ' s been a kind of moody -- desperate moody , and savage sometimes ; but that will all pass off . And once for all , let me tell thee and assure thee , young man , it ' s better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one . So good - bye to thee -- and wrong not Captain Ahab , because he happens to have a wicked name . Besides , my boy , he has a wife -- not three voyages wedded -- a sweet , resigned girl . Think of that ; by that sweet girl that old man has a child : hold ye then there can be any utter , hopeless harm in Ahab ? No , no , my lad ; stricken , blasted , if he be , Ahab has his humanities !"

Then , again , in 1825 , Bernard Germain , Count de Lacepede , a great naturalist , published a scientific systemized whale book , wherein are several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan . All these are not only incorrect , but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale ( that is to say , the Right whale ), even Scoresby , a long experienced man as touching that species , declares not to have its counterpart in nature .

CHAPTER 59

Look now at Stubb ; a man who from his humorous , deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies , was specially qualified to excel in pitchpoling . Look at him ; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the flying boat ; wrapt in fleecy foam , the towing whale is forty feet ahead . Handling the long lance lightly , glancing twice or thrice along its length to see if it be exactly straight , Stubb whistlingly gathers up the coil of the warp in one hand , so as to secure its free end in his grasp , leaving the rest unobstructed . Then holding the lance full before his waistband ' s middle , he levels it at the whale ; when , covering him with it , he steadily depresses the butt - end in his hand , thereby elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm , fifteen feet in the air . He minds you somewhat of a juggler , balancing a long staff on his chin . Next moment with a rapid , nameless impulse , in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming distance , and quivers in the life spot of the whale . Instead of sparkling water , he now spouts red blood .

" On one occasion I saw two of these monsters ( whales ) probably male and female , slowly swimming , one after the other , within less than a stone ' s throw of the shore " ( Terra Del Fuego ), " over which the beech tree extended its branches ." -- DARWIN ' S VOYAGE OF A NATURALIST .

Now having a night , a day , and still another night following before me in New Bedford , ere I could embark for my destined port , it became a matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile . It was a very dubious - looking , nay , a very dark and dismal night , bitingly cold and cheerless . I knew no one in the place . With anxious grapnels I had sounded my pocket , and only brought up a few pieces of silver ,-- So , wherever you go , Ishmael , said I to myself , as I stood in the middle of a dreary street shouldering my bag , and comparing the gloom towards the north with the darkness towards the south -- wherever in your wisdom you may conclude to lodge for the night , my dear Ishmael , be sure to inquire the price , and don ' t be too particular .

Walking the deck with quick , side - lunging strides , Ahab commanded the t ' gallant sails and royals to be set , and every stunsail spread . The best man in the ship must take the helm . Then , with every mast - head manned , the piled - up craft rolled down before the wind . The strange , upheaving , lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows of so many sails , made the buoyant , hovering deck to feel like air beneath the feet ; while still she rushed along , as if two antagonistic influences were struggling in her -- one to mount direct to heaven , the other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal . And had you watched Ahab ' s face that night , you would have thought that in him also two different things were warring . While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck , every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin - tap . On life and death this old man walked . But though the ship so swiftly sped , and though from every eye , like arrows , the eager glances shot , yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night . Every sailor swore he saw it once , but not a second time .

" We have been at great trouble , and peril , and some expense , and is all that to go to the Duke ' s benefit ; we getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters ?"

Be it said , however , that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species . Where one of that sort go down , twenty Right Whales do . This difference in the species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale ; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton ; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free . But there are instances where , after the lapse of many hours or several days , the sunken whale again rises , more buoyant than in life . But the reason of this is obvious . Gases are generated in him ; he swells to a prodigious magnitude ; becomes a sort of animal balloon . A line - of - battle ship could hardly keep him under then . In the Shore Whaling , on soundings , among the Bays of New Zealand , when a Right Whale gives token of sinking , they fasten buoys to him , with plenty of rope ; so that when the body has gone down , they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again .

I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas , something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale - ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there . It may be worth while , therefore , previously to advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman . It is time to set the world right in this matter , by proving such pictures of the whale all wrong .

CHAPTER 70

" May be ; may be . But it ' s made a wise man of me , Flask . D ' ye see Ahab standing there , sideways looking over the stern ? Well , the best thing you can do , Flask , is to let the old man alone ; never speak to him , whatever he says . Halloa ! What ' s that he shouts ? Hark !"

" Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks , the infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over ; he rears his enormous head , and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him ; he rushes at the boats with his head ; they are propelled before him with vast swiftness , and sometimes utterly destroyed . ... It is a matter of great astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so interesting , and , in a commercial point of view , so important an animal ( as the Sperm Whale ) should have been so entirely neglected , or should have excited so little curiosity among the numerous , and many of them competent observers , that of late years , must have possessed the most abundant and the most convenient opportunities of witnessing their habitudes ." -- THOMAS BEALE ' S HISTORY OF THE SPERM WHALE , 1839 .

But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on board , as she did the last day , with a long oil - ladle in one hand , and a still longer whaling lance in the other . Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward . As for Bildad , he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed , and at every fresh arrival , down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper . Every once in a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den , roaring at the men down the hatchways , roaring up to the riggers at the mast - head , and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam .

It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale ' s prodigious head hanging to the Pequod ' s side . But we must let it continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it . For the present other matters press , and the best we can do now for the head , is to pray heaven the tackles may hold .

" But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct , he kept his own counsel ( at least till all was over ) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles of his heart . He was in Radney the chief mate ' s watch ; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than half way to meet his doom , after the scene at the rigging , he insisted , against the express counsel of the captain , upon resuming the head of his watch at night . Upon this , and one or two other circumstances , Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge .

I considered the matter a moment , and then up stairs we went , and I was ushered into a small room , cold as a clam , and furnished , sure enough , with a prodigious bed , almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep abreast .

The hours wore on ;-- Ahab now shut up within his cabin ; anon , pacing the deck , with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect .

" No , sir ; not yet ," said Stubb , emboldened , " I will not tamely be called a dog , sir ."

CHAPTER 17

ALL . The squall ! the squall ! jump , my jollies ! ( THEY SCATTER .)

" Where - away ?"

Secondly : The ship Union , also of Nantucket , was in the year 1807 totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset , but the authentic particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter , though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it .

But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order , a pale man , with a bandaged head , arrested them -- Radney the chief mate . Ever since the blow , he had lain in his berth ; but that morning , hearing the tumult on the deck , he had crept out , and thus far had watched the whole scene . Such was the state of his mouth , that he could hardly speak ; but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the captain dared not attempt , he snatched the rope and advanced to his pinioned foe .

" Dost know nothing at all about whaling , I dare say -- eh ?

Ere long , from his first visit in the air , he withdrew into his cabin . But after that morning , he was every day visible to the crew ; either standing in his pivot - hole , or seated upon an ivory stool he had ; or heavily walking the deck . As the sky grew less gloomy ; indeed , began to grow a little genial , he became still less and less a recluse ; as if , when the ship had sailed from home , nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded . And , by and by , it came to pass , that he was almost continually in the air ; but , as yet , for all that he said , or perceptibly did , on the at last sunny deck , he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast . But the Pequod was only making a passage now ; not regularly cruising ; nearly all whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to , so that there was little or nothing , out of himself , to employ or excite Ahab , now ; and thus chase away , for that one interval , the clouds that layer upon layer were piled upon his brow , as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon .

" I think I remember some such story as you were telling ," said Flask , when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the ship , " but I can ' t remember where ."

" He wants you to take a glass of wine with him ," said the interpreter .

BOOK I . ( FOLIO ), CHAPTER I . ( SPERM WHALE ).-- This whale , among the English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale , and the Physeter whale , and the Anvil Headed whale , is the present Cachalot of the French , and the Pottsfich of the Germans , and the Macrocephalus of the Long Words . He is , without doubt , the largest inhabitant of the globe ; the most formidable of all whales to encounter ; the most majestic in aspect ; and lastly , by far the most valuable in commerce ; he being the only creature from which that valuable substance , spermaceti , is obtained . All his peculiarities will , in many other places , be enlarged upon . It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do . Philologically considered , it is absurd . Some centuries ago , when the Sperm whale was almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality , and when his oil was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish ; in those days spermaceti , it would seem , was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale . It was the idea also , that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses . In those times , also , spermaceti was exceedingly scarce , not being used for light , but only as an ointment and medicament . It was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb . When , as I opine , in the course of time , the true nature of spermaceti became known , its original name was still retained by the dealers ; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity . And so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti was really derived .

For some time past , though at intervals only , the unaccompanied , secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen . But not all of them knew of his existence ; only a few of them , comparatively , had knowingly seen him ; while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him , was small indeed . For , owing to the large number of whale - cruisers ; the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference , many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes , so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch , to encounter a single news - telling sail of any sort ; the inordinate length of each separate voyage ; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home ; all these , with other circumstances , direct and indirect , long obstructed the spread through the whole world - wide whaling - fleet of the special individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick . It was hardly to be doubted , that several vessels reported to have encountered , at such or such a time , or on such or such a meridian , a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity , which whale , after doing great mischief to his assailants , had completely escaped them ; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption , I say , that the whale in question must have been no other than Moby Dick . Yet as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not unfrequent instances of great ferocity , cunning , and malice in the monster attacked ; therefore it was , that those who by accident ignorantly gave battle to Moby Dick ; such hunters , perhaps , for the most part , were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred , more , as it were , to the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large , than to the individual cause . In that way , mostly , the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded .

" Queequeg no care what god made him shark ," said the savage , agonizingly lifting his hand up and down ; " wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god ; but de god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin ."

Wet , drenched through , and shivering cold , despairing of ship or boat , we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on . The mist still spread over the sea , the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat . Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet , hollowing his hand to his ear . We all heard a faint creaking , as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by the storm . The sound came nearer and nearer ; the thick mists were dimly parted by a huge , vague form . Affrighted , we all sprang into the sea as the ship at last loomed into view , bearing right down upon us within a distance of not much more than its length .

Even as it was , I thought something of slipping out of the window , but it was the second floor back . I am no coward , but what to make of this head - peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension . Ignorance is the parent of fear , and being completely nonplussed and confounded about the stranger , I confess I was now as much afraid of him as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of night . In fact , I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then to address him , and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed inexplicable in him .

" No ," said Peleg , " and he hasn ' t been baptized right either , or it would have washed some of that devil ' s blue off his face ."

" A mariner sat in the shrouds one night , The wind was piping free ; Now bright , now dimmed , was the moonlight pale , And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale , As it floundered in the sea ." -- ELIZABETH OAKES SMITH .

The Castaway .

" The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the water - works at London Bridge , and the water roaring in its passage through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood gushing from the whale ' s heart ." -- PALEY ' S THEOLOGY .

With memories like these in him , and , moreover , given to a certain superstitiousness , as has been said ; the courage of this Starbuck which could , nevertheless , still flourish , must indeed have been extreme . But it was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized , and with such terrible experiences and remembrances as he had ; it was not in nature that these things should fail in latently engendering an element in him , which , under suitable circumstances , would break out from its confinement , and burn all his courage up . And brave as he might be , it was that sort of bravery chiefly , visible in some intrepid men , which , while generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas , or winds , or whales , or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world , yet cannot withstand those more terrific , because more spiritual terrors , which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged and mighty man .

Ship and boat diverged ; the cold , damp night breeze blew between ; a screaming gull flew overhead ; the two hulls wildly rolled ; we gave three heavy - hearted cheers , and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic .

" Who ' s Old Thunder ?" said I , again riveted with the insane earnestness of his manner .

" Good night , landlord ," said I , " you may go ."

"' Will you be so good as to bring the priest also , Don ?'

" Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him ; One would think the deep to be hoary ." -- JOB .

CHAPTER 53

Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me , I had noticed that the seamen at the main and mizzen - mast - heads were already drowsy . So that at last all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars , and for every swing that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman . The waves , too , nodded their indolent crests ; and across the wide trance of the sea , east nodded to west , and the sun over all .

Next morning , Monday , after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber , for a block , I settled my own and comrade ' s bill ; using , however , my comrade ' s money . The grinning landlord , as well as the boarders , seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between me and Queequeg -- especially as Peter Coffin ' s cock and bull stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person whom I now companied with .

As he mounted the deck , Ahab abruptly accosted him , without at all heeding what he had in his hand ; but in his broken lingo , the German soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale ; immediately turning the conversation to his lamp - feeder and oil can , with some remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in profound darkness -- his last drop of Bremen oil being gone , and not a single flying - fish yet captured to supply the deficiency ; concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically called a CLEAN one ( that is , an empty one ), well deserving the name of Jungfrau or the Virgin .

The Prophet .

Every whale - ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships , whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed , depends upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans . Thus , most letters never reach their mark ; and many are only received after attaining an age of two or three years or more .

Though many of the whales , as has been said , were in violent motion , yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor retreated , but collectively remained in one place . As is customary in those cases , the boats at once separated , each making for some one lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal . In about three minutes ' time , Queequeg ' s harpoon was flung ; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces , and then running away with us like light , steered straight for the heart of the herd . Though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such circumstances , is in no wise unprecedented ; and indeed is almost always more or less anticipated ; yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery . For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal , you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a delirious throb .

Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo , a gigantic , coal - black negro - savage , with a lion - like tread -- an Ahasuerus to behold . Suspended from his ears were two golden hoops , so large that the sailors called them ring - bolts , and would talk of securing the top - sail halyards to them . In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler , lying in a lonely bay on his native coast . And never having been anywhere in the world but in Africa , Nantucket , and the pagan harbors most frequented by whalemen ; and having now led for many years the bold life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what manner of men they shipped ; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues , and erect as a giraffe , moved about the decks in all the pomp of six feet five in his socks . There was a corporeal humility in looking up at him ; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress . Curious to tell , this imperial negro , Ahasuerus Daggoo , was the Squire of little Flask , who looked like a chess - man beside him . As for the residue of the Pequod ' s company , be it said , that at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the mast employed in the American whale fishery , are Americans born , though pretty nearly all the officers are . Herein it is the same with the American whale fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies , and the engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and Railroads . The same , I say , because in all these cases the native American liberally provides the brains , the rest of the world as generously supplying the muscles . No small number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores , where the outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores . In like manner , the Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London , put in at the Shetland Islands , to receive the full complement of their crew . Upon the passage homewards , they drop them there again . How it is , there is no telling , but Islanders seem to make the best whalemen . They were nearly all Islanders in the Pequod , ISOLATOES too , I call such , not acknowledging the common continent of men , but each ISOLATO living on a separate continent of his own . Yet now , federated along one keel , what a set these Isolatoes were ! An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles of the sea , and all the ends of the earth , accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay the world ' s grievances before that bar from which not very many of them ever come back . Black Little Pip -- he never did -- oh , no ! he went before . Poor Alabama boy ! On the grim Pequod ' s forecastle , ye shall ere long see him , beating his tambourine ; prelusive of the eternal time , when sent for , to the great quarter - deck on high , he was bid strike in with angels , and beat his tambourine in glory ; called a coward here , hailed a hero there !

Coffin ?-- Spouter ?-- Rather ominous in that particular connexion , thought I . But it is a common name in Nantucket , they say , and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there . As the light looked so dim , and the place , for the time , looked quiet enough , and the dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt district , and as the swinging sign had a poverty - stricken sort of creak to it , I thought that here was the very spot for cheap lodgings , and the best of pea coffee .

Almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enormous mass dropped into the sea , like Niagara ' s Table - Rock into the whirlpool ; the suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it , to far down her glittering copper ; and all caught their breath , as half swinging -- now over the sailors ' heads , and now over the water -- Daggoo , through a thick mist of spray , was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles , while poor , buried - alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea ! But hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away , when a naked figure with a boarding - sword in his hand , was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks . The next , a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue . One packed rush was made to the side , and every eye counted every ripple , as moment followed moment , and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen . Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside , and pushed a little off from the ship .

" Do with it ? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home ;-- what else ?"

Sunset .

" Broke ," said I --" BROKE , do you mean ?"

" Woo - hoo ! Wa - hee !" screamed the Gay - Header in reply , raising some old war - whoop to the skies ; as every oarsman in the strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading stroke which the eager Indian gave .

" Aye , aye , I thought so . Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship ."

Folding back the counterpane , I stooped over the bed . Though none of the most elegant , it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well . I then glanced round the room ; and besides the bedstead and centre table , could see no other furniture belonging to the place , but a rude shelf , the four walls , and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale . Of things not properly belonging to the room , there was a hammock lashed up , and thrown upon the floor in one corner ; also a large seaman ' s bag , containing the harpooneer ' s wardrobe , no doubt in lieu of a land trunk . Likewise , there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf over the fire - place , and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed .

Heads or Tails .

Bethink yourself also of another thing . When two large , loaded Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks , what do the sailors do ? They do not suspend between them , at the point of coming contact , any merely hard substance , like iron or wood . No , they hold there a large , round wad of tow and cork , enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox - hide . That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow - bars . By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at . But supplementary to this , it has hypothetically occurred to me , that as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them , capable , at will , of distension or contraction ; and as the Sperm Whale , as far as I know , has no such provision in him ; considering , too , the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the surface , and anon swims with it high elevated out of the water ; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope ; considering the unique interior of his head ; it has hypothetically occurred to me , I say , that those mystical lung - celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with the outer air , so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and contraction . If this be so , fancy the irresistibleness of that might , to which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes .

" You said up there , didn ' t you ? and now look yourself , and see where your tongs are pointing . But , perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber ' s hole , cook ; but , no , no , cook , you don ' t get there , except you go the regular way , round by the rigging . It ' s a ticklish business , but must be done , or else it ' s no go . But none of us are in heaven yet . Drop your tongs , cook , and hear my orders . Do ye hear ? Hold your hat in one hand , and clap t ' other a ' top of your heart , when I ' m giving my orders , cook . What ! that your heart , there ?-- that ' s your gizzard ! Aloft ! aloft !-- that ' s it -- now you have it . Hold it there now , and pay attention ."

" On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie , Don ; but -- I crave your courtesy -- may be , you shall soon hear further of all that . Now , gentlemen , in square - sail brigs and three - masted ships , well - nigh as large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far Manilla ; this Lakeman , in the land - locked heart of our America , had yet been nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly connected with the open ocean . For in their interflowing aggregate , those grand fresh - water seas of ours ,-- Erie , and Ontario , and Huron , and Superior , and Michigan ,-- possess an ocean - like expansiveness , with many of the ocean ' s noblest traits ; with many of its rimmed varieties of races and of climes . They contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles , even as the Polynesian waters do ; in large part , are shored by two great contrasting nations , as the Atlantic is ; they furnish long maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East , dotted all round their banks ; here and there are frowned upon by batteries , and by the goat - like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw ; they have heard the fleet thunderings of naval victories ; at intervals , they yield their beaches to wild barbarians , whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams ; for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests , where the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies ; those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey , and silken creatures whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors ; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland , as well as Winnebago villages ; they float alike the full - rigged merchant ship , the armed cruiser of the State , the steamer , and the beech canoe ; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as direful as any that lash the salted wave ; they know what shipwrecks are , for out of sight of land , however inland , they have drowned full many a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew . Thus , gentlemen , though an inlander , Steelkilt was wild - ocean born , and wild - ocean nurtured ; as much of an audacious mariner as any . And for Radney , though in his infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach , to nurse at his maternal sea ; though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific ; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods seaman , fresh from the latitudes of buck - horn handled bowie - knives . Yet was this Nantucketer a man with some good - hearted traits ; and this Lakeman , a mariner , who though a sort of devil indeed , might yet by inflexible firmness , only tempered by that common decency of human recognition which is the meanest slave ' s right ; thus treated , this Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile . At all events , he had proved so thus far ; but Radney was doomed and made mad , and Steelkilt -- but , gentlemen , you shall hear .

Instantly the captain ran forward , and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the cutting - tackles , and at once cast loose the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship .

Another thing . Flask was the last person down at the dinner , and Flask is the first man up . Consider ! For hereby Flask ' s dinner was badly jammed in point of time . Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him ; and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear . If Stubb even , who is but a peg higher than Flask , happens to have but a small appetite , and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast , then Flask must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day ; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck . Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private , that ever since he had arisen to the dignity of an officer , from that moment he had never known what it was to be otherwise than hungry , more or less . For what he ate did not so much relieve his hunger , as keep it immortal in him . Peace and satisfaction , thought Flask , have for ever departed from my stomach . I am an officer ; but , how I wish I could fish a bit of old - fashioned beef in the forecastle , as I used to when I was before the mast . There ' s the fruits of promotion now ; there ' s the vanity of glory : there ' s the insanity of life ! Besides , if it were so that any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask ' s official capacity , all that sailor had to do , in order to obtain ample vengeance , was to go aft at dinner - time , and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky - light , sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab .

Thus the whale - line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils , twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction . All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions ; so that to the timid eye of the landsman , they seem as Indian jugglers , with the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs . Nor can any son of mortal woman , for the first time , seat himself amid those hempen intricacies , and while straining his utmost at the oar , bethink him that at any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted , and all these horrible contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings ; he cannot be thus circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones to quiver in him like a shaken jelly . Yet habit -- strange thing ! what cannot habit accomplish ?-- Gayer sallies , more merry mirth , better jokes , and brighter repartees , you never heard over your mahogany , than you will hear over the half - inch white cedar of the whale - boat , when thus hung in hangman ' s nooses ; and , like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward , the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death , with a halter around every neck , as you may say .

" Ah , my dear fellow , you can ' t fool us that way -- you can ' t fool us . It is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him ."

" WHALE . ... It is more immediately from the Dut . and Ger . WALLEN ; A . S . WALW - IAN , to roll , to wallow ." -- RICHARDSON ' S DICTIONARY

So fare thee well , poor devil of a Sub - Sub , whose commentator I am . Thou belongest to that hopeless , sallow tribe which no wine of this world will ever warm ; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy - strong ; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit , and feel poor - devilish , too ; and grow convivial upon tears ; and say to them bluntly , with full eyes and empty glasses , and in not altogether unpleasant sadness -- Give it up , Sub - Subs ! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world , by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless ! Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye ! But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal - mast with your hearts ; for your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven - storied heavens , and making refugees of long - pampered Gabriel , Michael , and Raphael , against your coming . Here ye strike but splintered hearts together -- there , ye shall strike unsplinterable glasses !

" Do you is all sharks , and by natur wery woracious , yet I zay to you , fellow - critters , dat dat woraciousness --' top dat dam slappin ' ob de tail ! How you tink to hear , spose you keep up such a dam slappin ' and bitin ' dare ?"

Now comes the Baling of the Case . But to comprehend it aright , you must know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated upon .

All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air . But it bade fair to outstrip them ; it flew on and on , as a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the hills .

The Specksynder .

" Mrs . Hussey ," said I , " he ' s ALIVE at all events ; so leave us , if you please , and I will see to this strange affair myself ."

PORTUGUESE SAILOR . How the sea rolls swashing ' gainst the side ! Stand by for reefing , hearties ! the winds are just crossing swords , pell - mell they ' ll go lunging presently .

But there was no time for shuddering , for now the savage went about something that completely fascinated my attention , and convinced me that he must indeed be a heathen . Going to his heavy grego , or wrapall , or dreadnaught , which he had previously hung on a chair , he fumbled in the pockets , and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch on its back , and exactly the colour of a three days ' old Congo baby . Remembering the embalmed head , at first I almost thought that this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner . But seeing that it was not at all limber , and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony , I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol , which indeed it proved to be . For now the savage goes up to the empty fire - place , and removing the papered fire - board , sets up this little hunch - backed image , like a tenpin , between the andirons . The chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty , so that I thought this fire - place made a very appropriate little shrine or chapel for his Congo idol .

"' What are you making there ?' said a shipmate .

Returning from my first morning stroll , I again sallied out upon this special errand . The sky had changed from clear , sunny cold , to driving sleet and mist . Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called bearskin , I fought my way against the stubborn storm . Entering , I found a small scattered congregation of sailors , and sailors ' wives and widows . A muffled silence reigned , only broken at times by the shrieks of the storm . Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from the other , as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable . The chaplain had not yet arrived ; and there these silent islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets , with black borders , masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit . Three of them ran something like the following , but I do not pretend to quote :--

Tashtego stood in the bows . He was full of the fire of the hunt . He hated Pip for a poltroon . Snatching the boat - knife from its sheath , he suspended its sharp edge over the line , and turning towards Stubb , exclaimed interrogatively , " Cut ?" Meantime Pip ' s blue , choked face plainly looked , Do , for God ' s sake ! All passed in a flash . In less than half a minute , this entire thing happened .

CHAPTER 60

" Who - e debel you ?" -- he at last said --" you no speak - e , dam - me , I kill - e ." And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the dark .

Stubb ' s exordium to his crew is given here at large , because he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general , and especially in inculcating the religion of rowing . But you must not suppose from this specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with his congregation . Not at all ; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity . He would say the most terrific things to his crew , in a tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury , and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a spice to the fun , that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without pulling for dear life , and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing . Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself , so loungingly managed his steering - oar , and so broadly gaped -- open - mouthed at times -- that the mere sight of such a yawning commander , by sheer force of contrast , acted like a charm upon the crew . Then again , Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists , whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous , as to put all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them .

TASHTEGO . ( QUIETLY SMOKING ) That ' s a white man ; he calls that fun : humph ! I save my sweat .

" With what ?" shouted I .

The Dart .

It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman , that a most significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod ' s crew ; an event most lamentable ; and which ended in providing the sometimes madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own .

But no more of this blubbering now , we are going a - whaling , and there is plenty of that yet to come . Let us scrape the ice from our frosted feet , and see what sort of a place this " Spouter " may be .

I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia ; expressing the idea very plainly , so that he could take it in . He said no ; only upon one memorable occasion . It was after a great feast given by his father the king , on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o ' clock in the afternoon , and all cooked and eaten that very evening .

But before going further , it is important to mention here , that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance , yet it is seldom done ; and when done , is still less frequently successful , on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as compared with the lance , which in effect become serious drawbacks . As a general thing , therefore , you must first get fast to a whale , before any pitchpoling comes into play .

' Twas not so hard a task . I thought to find one stubborn , at the least ; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels , and they revolve . Or , if you will , like so many ant - hills of powder , they all stand before me ; and I their match . Oh , hard ! that to fire others , the match itself must needs be wasting ! What I ' ve dared , I ' ve willed ; and what I ' ve willed , I ' ll do ! They think me mad -- Starbuck does ; but I ' m demoniac , I am madness maddened ! That wild madness that ' s only calm to comprehend itself ! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered ; and -- Aye ! I lost this leg . I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer . Now , then , be the prophet and the fulfiller one . That ' s more than ye , ye great gods , ever were . I laugh and hoot at ye , ye cricket - players , ye pugilists , ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes ! I will not say as schoolboys do to bullies -- Take some one of your own size ; don ' t pommel ME ! No , ye ' ve knocked me down , and I am up again ; but YE have run and hidden . Come forth from behind your cotton bags ! I have no long gun to reach ye . Come , Ahab ' s compliments to ye ; come and see if ye can swerve me . Swerve me ? ye cannot swerve me , else ye swerve yourselves ! man has ye there . Swerve me ? The path to my fixed purpose is laid with iron rails , whereon my soul is grooved to run . Over unsounded gorges , through the rifled hearts of mountains , under torrents ' beds , unerringly I rush ! Naught ' s an obstacle , naught ' s an angle to the iron way !

" No , no , no ; I wasn ' t aware of that ," said Elijah , slowly and wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg , with the most unaccountable glances .

Thus much being said , attend now , I pray you , to that marvellous and -- in this particular instance -- almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Whale ' s great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped .

" No , cook ; go on , go on ."

" Man overboard !" cried Daggoo , who amid the general consternation first came to his senses . " Swing the bucket this way !" and putting one foot into it , so as the better to secure his slippery hand - hold on the whip itself , the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head , almost before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom . Meantime , there was a terrible tumult . Looking over the side , they saw the before lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea , as if that moment seized with some momentous idea ; whereas it was only the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which he had sunk ." Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg -- that ' s who ye are speaking to , young man . It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted out for the voyage , and supplied with all her needs , including crew . We are part owners and agents . But as I was going to say , if thou wantest to know what whaling is , as thou tellest ye do , I can put ye in a way of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it , past backing out . Clap eye on Captain Ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he has only one leg ."

I will now refer you to Langsdorff ' s Voyages for a little circumstance in point , peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof . Langsdorff , you must know by the way , was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern ' s famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century . Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter :

Meantime , they hauled more and more upon their lines , till close flanking him on both sides , Stubb answered Flask with lance for lance ; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went , while the multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale ' s body , rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled , thirstily drinking at every new gash , as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains that poured from the smitten rock .

" God bless ye , and have ye in His holy keeping , men ," murmured old Bildad , almost incoherently . " I hope ye ' ll have fine weather now , so that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye -- a pleasant sun is all he needs , and ye ' ll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go . Be careful in the hunt , ye mates . Don ' t stave the boats needlessly , ye harpooneers ; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent . within the year . Don ' t forget your prayers , either . Mr . Starbuck , mind that cooper don ' t waste the spare staves . Oh ! the sail - needles are in the green locker ! Don ' t whale it too much a ' Lord ' s days , men ; but don ' t miss a fair chance either , that ' s rejecting Heaven ' s good gifts . Have an eye to the molasses tierce , Mr . Stubb ; it was a little leaky , I thought . If ye touch at the islands , Mr . Flask , beware of fornication . Good - bye , good - bye ! Don ' t keep that cheese too long down in the hold , Mr . Starbuck ; it ' ll spoil . Be careful with the butter -- twenty cents the pound it was , and mind ye , if --"

It was during the more pleasant weather , that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast - head came round .

" Cough be damned ! Pass along that return bucket ."

" Come hither to me -- hither , hither ," said Peleg , with a significance in his eye that almost startled me . " Look ye , lad ; never say that on board the Pequod . Never say it anywhere . Captain Ahab did not name himself . ' Twas a foolish , ignorant whim of his crazy , widowed mother , who died when he was only a twelvemonth old . And yet the old squaw Tistig , at Gayhead , said that the name would somehow prove prophetic . And , perhaps , other fools like her may tell thee the same . I wish to warn thee . It ' s a lie . I know Captain Ahab well ; I ' ve sailed with him as mate years ago ; I know what he is -- a good man -- not a pious , good man , like Bildad , but a swearing good man -- something like me -- only there ' s a good deal more of him . Aye , aye , I know that he was never very jolly ; and I know that on the passage home , he was a little out of his mind for a spell ; but it was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump that brought that about , as any one might see . I know , too , that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale , he ' s been a kind of moody -- desperate moody , and savage sometimes ; but that will all pass off . And once for all , let me tell thee and assure thee , young man , it ' s better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one . So good - bye to thee -- and wrong not Captain Ahab , because he happens to have a wicked name . Besides , my boy , he has a wife -- not three voyages wedded -- a sweet , resigned girl . Think of that ; by that sweet girl that old man has a child : hold ye then there can be any utter , hopeless harm in Ahab ? No , no , my lad ; stricken , blasted , if he be , Ahab has his humanities !"

Then , again , in 1825 , Bernard Germain , Count de Lacepede , a great naturalist , published a scientific systemized whale book , wherein are several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan . All these are not only incorrect , but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale ( that is to say , the Right whale ), even Scoresby , a long experienced man as touching that species , declares not to have its counterpart in nature .

CHAPTER 59

Look now at Stubb ; a man who from his humorous , deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies , was specially qualified to excel in pitchpoling . Look at him ; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the flying boat ; wrapt in fleecy foam , the towing whale is forty feet ahead . Handling the long lance lightly , glancing twice or thrice along its length to see if it be exactly straight , Stubb whistlingly gathers up the coil of the warp in one hand , so as to secure its free end in his grasp , leaving the rest unobstructed . Then holding the lance full before his waistband ' s middle , he levels it at the whale ; when , covering him with it , he steadily depresses the butt - end in his hand , thereby elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm , fifteen feet in the air . He minds you somewhat of a juggler , balancing a long staff on his chin . Next moment with a rapid , nameless impulse , in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming distance , and quivers in the life spot of the whale . Instead of sparkling water , he now spouts red blood .

" On one occasion I saw two of these monsters ( whales ) probably male and female , slowly swimming , one after the other , within less than a stone ' s throw of the shore " ( Terra Del Fuego ), " over which the beech tree extended its branches ." -- DARWIN ' S VOYAGE OF A NATURALIST .

Now having a night , a day , and still another night following before me in New Bedford , ere I could embark for my destined port , it became a matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile . It was a very dubious - looking , nay , a very dark and dismal night , bitingly cold and cheerless . I knew no one in the place . With anxious grapnels I had sounded my pocket , and only brought up a few pieces of silver ,-- So , wherever you go , Ishmael , said I to myself , as I stood in the middle of a dreary street shouldering my bag , and comparing the gloom towards the north with the darkness towards the south -- wherever in your wisdom you may conclude to lodge for the night , my dear Ishmael , be sure to inquire the price , and don ' t be too particular .

Walking the deck with quick , side - lunging strides , Ahab commanded the t ' gallant sails and royals to be set , and every stunsail spread . The best man in the ship must take the helm . Then , with every mast - head manned , the piled - up craft rolled down before the wind . The strange , upheaving , lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows of so many sails , made the buoyant , hovering deck to feel like air beneath the feet ; while still she rushed along , as if two antagonistic influences were struggling in her -- one to mount direct to heaven , the other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal . And had you watched Ahab ' s face that night , you would have thought that in him also two different things were warring . While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck , every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin - tap . On life and death this old man walked . But though the ship so swiftly sped , and though from every eye , like arrows , the eager glances shot , yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night . Every sailor swore he saw it once , but not a second time .

" We have been at great trouble , and peril , and some expense , and is all that to go to the Duke ' s benefit ; we getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters ?"

Be it said , however , that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species . Where one of that sort go down , twenty Right Whales do . This difference in the species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale ; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton ; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free . But there are instances where , after the lapse of many hours or several days , the sunken whale again rises , more buoyant than in life . But the reason of this is obvious . Gases are generated in him ; he swells to a prodigious magnitude ; becomes a sort of animal balloon . A line - of - battle ship could hardly keep him under then . In the Shore Whaling , on soundings , among the Bays of New Zealand , when a Right Whale gives token of sinking , they fasten buoys to him , with plenty of rope ; so that when the body has gone down , they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again .

I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas , something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale - ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there . It may be worth while , therefore , previously to advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman . It is time to set the world right in this matter , by proving such pictures of the whale all wrong .

CHAPTER 70

" May be ; may be . But it ' s made a wise man of me , Flask . D ' ye see Ahab standing there , sideways looking over the stern ? Well , the best thing you can do , Flask , is to let the old man alone ; never speak to him , whatever he says . Halloa ! What ' s that he shouts ? Hark !"

" Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks , the infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over ; he rears his enormous head , and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him ; he rushes at the boats with his head ; they are propelled before him with vast swiftness , and sometimes utterly destroyed . ... It is a matter of great astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so interesting , and , in a commercial point of view , so important an animal ( as the Sperm Whale ) should have been so entirely neglected , or should have excited so little curiosity among the numerous , and many of them competent observers , that of late years , must have possessed the most abundant and the most convenient opportunities of witnessing their habitudes ." -- THOMAS BEALE ' S HISTORY OF THE SPERM WHALE , 1839 .

But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on board , as she did the last day , with a long oil - ladle in one hand , and a still longer whaling lance in the other . Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward . As for Bildad , he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed , and at every fresh arrival , down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper . Every once in a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den , roaring at the men down the hatchways , roaring up to the riggers at the mast - head , and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam .

It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale ' s prodigious head hanging to the Pequod ' s side . But we must let it continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it . For the present other matters press , and the best we can do now for the head , is to pray heaven the tackles may hold .

" But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct , he kept his own counsel ( at least till all was over ) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles of his heart . He was in Radney the chief mate ' s watch ; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than half way to meet his doom , after the scene at the rigging , he insisted , against the express counsel of the captain , upon resuming the head of his watch at night . Upon this , and one or two other circumstances , Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge .

I considered the matter a moment , and then up stairs we went , and I was ushered into a small room , cold as a clam , and furnished , sure enough , with a prodigious bed , almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep abreast .

The hours wore on ;-- Ahab now shut up within his cabin ; anon , pacing the deck , with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect .

" No , sir ; not yet ," said Stubb , emboldened , " I will not tamely be called a dog , sir ."

CHAPTER 17

ALL . The squall ! the squall ! jump , my jollies ! ( THEY SCATTER .)

" Where - away ?"

Secondly : The ship Union , also of Nantucket , was in the year 1807 totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset , but the authentic particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter , though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it .

But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order , a pale man , with a bandaged head , arrested them -- Radney the chief mate . Ever since the blow , he had lain in his berth ; but that morning , hearing the tumult on the deck , he had crept out , and thus far had watched the whole scene . Such was the state of his mouth , that he could hardly speak ; but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the captain dared not attempt , he snatched the rope and advanced to his pinioned foe .

" Dost know nothing at all about whaling , I dare say -- eh ?

Ere long , from his first visit in the air , he withdrew into his cabin . But after that morning , he was every day visible to the crew ; either standing in his pivot - hole , or seated upon an ivory stool he had ; or heavily walking the deck . As the sky grew less gloomy ; indeed , began to grow a little genial , he became still less and less a recluse ; as if , when the ship had sailed from home , nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded . And , by and by , it came to pass , that he was almost continually in the air ; but , as yet , for all that he said , or perceptibly did , on the at last sunny deck , he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast . But the Pequod was only making a passage now ; not regularly cruising ; nearly all whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to , so that there was little or nothing , out of himself , to employ or excite Ahab , now ; and thus chase away , for that one interval , the clouds that layer upon layer were piled upon his brow , as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon .

" I think I remember some such story as you were telling ," said Flask , when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the ship , " but I can ' t remember where ."

" He wants you to take a glass of wine with him ," said the interpreter .

BOOK I . ( FOLIO ), CHAPTER I . ( SPERM WHALE ).-- This whale , among the English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale , and the Physeter whale , and the Anvil Headed whale , is the present Cachalot of the French , and the Pottsfich of the Germans , and the Macrocephalus of the Long Words . He is , without doubt , the largest inhabitant of the globe ; the most formidable of all whales to encounter ; the most majestic in aspect ; and lastly , by far the most valuable in commerce ; he being the only creature from which that valuable substance , spermaceti , is obtained . All his peculiarities will , in many other places , be enlarged upon . It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do . Philologically considered , it is absurd . Some centuries ago , when the Sperm whale was almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality , and when his oil was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish ; in those days spermaceti , it would seem , was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale . It was the idea also , that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses . In those times , also , spermaceti was exceedingly scarce , not being used for light , but only as an ointment and medicament . It was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb . When , as I opine , in the course of time , the true nature of spermaceti became known , its original name was still retained by the dealers ; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity . And so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti was really derived .

For some time past , though at intervals only , the unaccompanied , secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen . But not all of them knew of his existence ; only a few of them , comparatively , had knowingly seen him ; while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him , was small indeed . For , owing to the large number of whale - cruisers ; the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference , many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes , so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch , to encounter a single news - telling sail of any sort ; the inordinate length of each separate voyage ; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home ; all these , with other circumstances , direct and indirect , long obstructed the spread through the whole world - wide whaling - fleet of the special individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick . It was hardly to be doubted , that several vessels reported to have encountered , at such or such a time , or on such or such a meridian , a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity , which whale , after doing great mischief to his assailants , had completely escaped them ; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption , I say , that the whale in question must have been no other than Moby Dick . Yet as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not unfrequent instances of great ferocity , cunning , and malice in the monster attacked ; therefore it was , that those who by accident ignorantly gave battle to Moby Dick ; such hunters , perhaps , for the most part , were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred , more , as it were , to the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large , than to the individual cause . In that way , mostly , the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded .

" Queequeg no care what god made him shark ," said the savage , agonizingly lifting his hand up and down ; " wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god ; but de god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin ."

Wet , drenched through , and shivering cold , despairing of ship or boat , we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on . The mist still spread over the sea , the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat . Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet , hollowing his hand to his ear . We all heard a faint creaking , as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by the storm . The sound came nearer and nearer ; the thick mists were dimly parted by a huge , vague form . Affrighted , we all sprang into the sea as the ship at last loomed into view , bearing right down upon us within a distance of not much more than its length .

Even as it was , I thought something of slipping out of the window , but it was the second floor back . I am no coward , but what to make of this head - peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension . Ignorance is the parent of fear , and being completely nonplussed and confounded about the stranger , I confess I was now as much afraid of him as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of night . In fact , I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then to address him , and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed inexplicable in him .

" No ," said Peleg , " and he hasn ' t been baptized right either , or it would have washed some of that devil ' s blue off his face ."

" A mariner sat in the shrouds one night , The wind was piping free ; Now bright , now dimmed , was the moonlight pale , And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale , As it floundered in the sea ." -- ELIZABETH OAKES SMITH .

The Castaway .

" The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the water - works at London Bridge , and the water roaring in its passage through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood gushing from the whale ' s heart ." -- PALEY ' S THEOLOGY .

With memories like these in him , and , moreover , given to a certain superstitiousness , as has been said ; the courage of this Starbuck which could , nevertheless , still flourish , must indeed have been extreme . But it was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized , and with such terrible experiences and remembrances as he had ; it was not in nature that these things should fail in latently engendering an element in him , which , under suitable circumstances , would break out from its confinement , and burn all his courage up . And brave as he might be , it was that sort of bravery chiefly , visible in some intrepid men , which , while generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas , or winds , or whales , or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world , yet cannot withstand those more terrific , because more spiritual terrors , which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged and mighty man .

Ship and boat diverged ; the cold , damp night breeze blew between ; a screaming gull flew overhead ; the two hulls wildly rolled ; we gave three heavy - hearted cheers , and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic .

" Who ' s Old Thunder ?" said I , again riveted with the insane earnestness of his manner .

" Good night , landlord ," said I , " you may go ."

"' Will you be so good as to bring the priest also , Don ?'

" Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him ; One would think the deep to be hoary ." -- JOB .

CHAPTER 53

Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me , I had noticed that the seamen at the main and mizzen - mast - heads were already drowsy . So that at last all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars , and for every swing that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman . The waves , too , nodded their indolent crests ; and across the wide trance of the sea , east nodded to west , and the sun over all .

Next morning , Monday , after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber , for a block , I settled my own and comrade ' s bill ; using , however , my comrade ' s money . The grinning landlord , as well as the boarders , seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between me and Queequeg -- especially as Peter Coffin ' s cock and bull stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person whom I now companied with .

As he mounted the deck , Ahab abruptly accosted him , without at all heeding what he had in his hand ; but in his broken lingo , the German soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale ; immediately turning the conversation to his lamp - feeder and oil can , with some remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in profound darkness -- his last drop of Bremen oil being gone , and not a single flying - fish yet captured to supply the deficiency ; concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically called a CLEAN one ( that is , an empty one ), well deserving the name of Jungfrau or the Virgin .

The Prophet .

Every whale - ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships , whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed , depends upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans . Thus , most letters never reach their mark ; and many are only received after attaining an age of two or three years or more .

Though many of the whales , as has been said , were in violent motion , yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor retreated , but collectively remained in one place . As is customary in those cases , the boats at once separated , each making for some one lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal . In about three minutes ' time , Queequeg ' s harpoon was flung ; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces , and then running away with us like light , steered straight for the heart of the herd . Though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such circumstances , is in no wise unprecedented ; and indeed is almost always more or less anticipated ; yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery . For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal , you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a delirious throb .

Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo , a gigantic , coal - black negro - savage , with a lion - like tread -- an Ahasuerus to behold . Suspended from his ears were two golden hoops , so large that the sailors called them ring - bolts , and would talk of securing the top - sail halyards to them . In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler , lying in a lonely bay on his native coast . And never having been anywhere in the world but in Africa , Nantucket , and the pagan harbors most frequented by whalemen ; and having now led for many years the bold life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what manner of men they shipped ; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues , and erect as a giraffe , moved about the decks in all the pomp of six feet five in his socks . There was a corporeal humility in looking up at him ; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress . Curious to tell , this imperial negro , Ahasuerus Daggoo , was the Squire of little Flask , who looked like a chess - man beside him . As for the residue of the Pequod ' s company , be it said , that at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the mast employed in the American whale fishery , are Americans born , though pretty nearly all the officers are . Herein it is the same with the American whale fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies , and the engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and Railroads . The same , I say , because in all these cases the native American liberally provides the brains , the rest of the world as generously supplying the muscles . No small number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores , where the outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores . In like manner , the Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London , put in at the Shetland Islands , to receive the full complement of their crew . Upon the passage homewards , they drop them there again . How it is , there is no telling , but Islanders seem to make the best whalemen . They were nearly all Islanders in the Pequod , ISOLATOES too , I call such , not acknowledging the common continent of men , but each ISOLATO living on a separate continent of his own . Yet now , federated along one keel , what a set these Isolatoes were ! An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles of the sea , and all the ends of the earth , accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay the world ' s grievances before that bar from which not very many of them ever come back . Black Little Pip -- he never did -- oh , no ! he went before . Poor Alabama boy ! On the grim Pequod ' s forecastle , ye shall ere long see him , beating his tambourine ; prelusive of the eternal time , when sent for , to the great quarter - deck on high , he was bid strike in with angels , and beat his tambourine in glory ; called a coward here , hailed a hero there !

Coffin ?-- Spouter ?-- Rather ominous in that particular connexion , thought I . But it is a common name in Nantucket , they say , and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there . As the light looked so dim , and the place , for the time , looked quiet enough , and the dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt district , and as the swinging sign had a poverty - stricken sort of creak to it , I thought that here was the very spot for cheap lodgings , and the best of pea coffee .

Almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enormous mass dropped into the sea , like Niagara ' s Table - Rock into the whirlpool ; the suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it , to far down her glittering copper ; and all caught their breath , as half swinging -- now over the sailors ' heads , and now over the water -- Daggoo , through a thick mist of spray , was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles , while poor , buried - alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea ! But hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away , when a naked figure with a boarding - sword in his hand , was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks . The next , a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue . One packed rush was made to the side , and every eye counted every ripple , as moment followed moment , and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen . Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside , and pushed a little off from the ship .

" Do with it ? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home ;-- what else ?"

Sunset .

" Broke ," said I --" BROKE , do you mean ?"

" Woo - hoo ! Wa - hee !" screamed the Gay - Header in reply , raising some old war - whoop to the skies ; as every oarsman in the strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading stroke which the eager Indian gave .

" Aye , aye , I thought so . Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship ."

Folding back the counterpane , I stooped over the bed . Though none of the most elegant , it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well . I then glanced round the room ; and besides the bedstead and centre table , could see no other furniture belonging to the place , but a rude shelf , the four walls , and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale . Of things not properly belonging to the room , there was a hammock lashed up , and thrown upon the floor in one corner ; also a large seaman ' s bag , containing the harpooneer ' s wardrobe , no doubt in lieu of a land trunk . Likewise , there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf over the fire - place , and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed .

Heads or Tails .

Bethink yourself also of another thing . When two large , loaded Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks , what do the sailors do ? They do not suspend between them , at the point of coming contact , any merely hard substance , like iron or wood . No , they hold there a large , round wad of tow and cork , enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox - hide . That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow - bars . By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at . But supplementary to this , it has hypothetically occurred to me , that as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them , capable , at will , of distension or contraction ; and as the Sperm Whale , as far as I know , has no such provision in him ; considering , too , the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the surface , and anon swims with it high elevated out of the water ; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope ; considering the unique interior of his head ; it has hypothetically occurred to me , I say , that those mystical lung - celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with the outer air , so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and contraction . If this be so , fancy the irresistibleness of that might , to which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes .

" You said up there , didn ' t you ? and now look yourself , and see where your tongs are pointing . But , perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber ' s hole , cook ; but , no , no , cook , you don ' t get there , except you go the regular way , round by the rigging . It ' s a ticklish business , but must be done , or else it ' s no go . But none of us are in heaven yet . Drop your tongs , cook , and hear my orders . Do ye hear ? Hold your hat in one hand , and clap t ' other a ' top of your heart , when I ' m giving my orders , cook . What ! that your heart , there ?-- that ' s your gizzard ! Aloft ! aloft !-- that ' s it -- now you have it . Hold it there now , and pay attention ."

" On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie , Don ; but -- I crave your courtesy -- may be , you shall soon hear further of all that . Now , gentlemen , in square - sail brigs and three - masted ships , well - nigh as large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far Manilla ; this Lakeman , in the land - locked heart of our America , had yet been nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly connected with the open ocean . For in their interflowing aggregate , those grand fresh - water seas of ours ,-- Erie , and Ontario , and Huron , and Superior , and Michigan ,-- possess an ocean - like expansiveness , with many of the ocean ' s noblest traits ; with many of its rimmed varieties of races and of climes . They contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles , even as the Polynesian waters do ; in large part , are shored by two great contrasting nations , as the Atlantic is ; they furnish long maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East , dotted all round their banks ; here and there are frowned upon by batteries , and by the goat - like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw ; they have heard the fleet thunderings of naval victories ; at intervals , they yield their beaches to wild barbarians , whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams ; for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests , where the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies ; those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey , and silken creatures whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors ; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland , as well as Winnebago villages ; they float alike the full - rigged merchant ship , the armed cruiser of the State , the steamer , and the beech canoe ; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as direful as any that lash the salted wave ; they know what shipwrecks are , for out of sight of land , however inland , they have drowned full many a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew . Thus , gentlemen , though an inlander , Steelkilt was wild - ocean born , and wild - ocean nurtured ; as much of an audacious mariner as any . And for Radney , though in his infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach , to nurse at his maternal sea ; though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific ; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods seaman , fresh from the latitudes of buck - horn handled bowie - knives . Yet was this Nantucketer a man with some good - hearted traits ; and this Lakeman , a mariner , who though a sort of devil indeed , might yet by inflexible firmness , only tempered by that common decency of human recognition which is the meanest slave ' s right ; thus treated , this Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile . At all events , he had proved so thus far ; but Radney was doomed and made mad , and Steelkilt -- but , gentlemen , you shall hear .

Instantly the captain ran forward , and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the cutting - tackles , and at once cast loose the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship .

Another thing . Flask was the last person down at the dinner , and Flask is the first man up . Consider ! For hereby Flask ' s dinner was badly jammed in point of time . Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him ; and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear . If Stubb even , who is but a peg higher than Flask , happens to have but a small appetite , and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast , then Flask must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day ; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck . Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private , that ever since he had arisen to the dignity of an officer , from that moment he had never known what it was to be otherwise than hungry , more or less . For what he ate did not so much relieve his hunger , as keep it immortal in him . Peace and satisfaction , thought Flask , have for ever departed from my stomach . I am an officer ; but , how I wish I could fish a bit of old - fashioned beef in the forecastle , as I used to when I was before the mast . There ' s the fruits of promotion now ; there ' s the vanity of glory : there ' s the insanity of life ! Besides , if it were so that any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask ' s official capacity , all that sailor had to do , in order to obtain ample vengeance , was to go aft at dinner - time , and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky - light , sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab .

Thus the whale - line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils , twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction . All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions ; so that to the timid eye of the landsman , they seem as Indian jugglers , with the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs . Nor can any son of mortal woman , for the first time , seat himself amid those hempen intricacies , and while straining his utmost at the oar , bethink him that at any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted , and all these horrible contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings ; he cannot be thus circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones to quiver in him like a shaken jelly . Yet habit -- strange thing ! what cannot habit accomplish ?-- Gayer sallies , more merry mirth , better jokes , and brighter repartees , you never heard over your mahogany , than you will hear over the half - inch white cedar of the whale - boat , when thus hung in hangman ' s nooses ; and , like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward , the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death , with a halter around every neck , as you may say .

" Ah , my dear fellow , you can ' t fool us that way -- you can ' t fool us . It is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him ."

" WHALE . ... It is more immediately from the Dut . and Ger . WALLEN ; A . S . WALW - IAN , to roll , to wallow ." -- RICHARDSON ' S DICTIONARY

So fare thee well , poor devil of a Sub - Sub , whose commentator I am . Thou belongest to that hopeless , sallow tribe which no wine of this world will ever warm ; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy - strong ; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit , and feel poor - devilish , too ; and grow convivial upon tears ; and say to them bluntly , with full eyes and empty glasses , and in not altogether unpleasant sadness -- Give it up , Sub - Subs ! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world , by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless ! Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye ! But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal - mast with your hearts ; for your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven - storied heavens , and making refugees of long - pampered Gabriel , Michael , and Raphael , against your coming . Here ye strike but splintered hearts together -- there , ye shall strike unsplinterable glasses !

" Do you is all sharks , and by natur wery woracious , yet I zay to you , fellow - critters , dat dat woraciousness --' top dat dam slappin ' ob de tail ! How you tink to hear , spose you keep up such a dam slappin ' and bitin ' dare ?"

Now comes the Baling of the Case . But to comprehend it aright , you must know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated upon .

All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air . But it bade fair to outstrip them ; it flew on and on , as a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the hills .

The Specksynder .

" Mrs . Hussey ," said I , " he ' s ALIVE at all events ; so leave us , if you please , and I will see to this strange affair myself ."

PORTUGUESE SAILOR . How the sea rolls swashing ' gainst the side ! Stand by for reefing , hearties ! the winds are just crossing swords , pell - mell they ' ll go lunging presently .

But there was no time for shuddering , for now the savage went about something that completely fascinated my attention , and convinced me that he must indeed be a heathen . Going to his heavy grego , or wrapall , or dreadnaught , which he had previously hung on a chair , he fumbled in the pockets , and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch on its back , and exactly the colour of a three days ' old Congo baby . Remembering the embalmed head , at first I almost thought that this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner . But seeing that it was not at all limber , and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony , I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol , which indeed it proved to be . For now the savage goes up to the empty fire - place , and removing the papered fire - board , sets up this little hunch - backed image , like a tenpin , between the andirons . The chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty , so that I thought this fire - place made a very appropriate little shrine or chapel for his Congo idol .

"' What are you making there ?' said a shipmate .

Returning from my first morning stroll , I again sallied out upon this special errand . The sky had changed from clear , sunny cold , to driving sleet and mist . Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called bearskin , I fought my way against the stubborn storm . Entering , I found a small scattered congregation of sailors , and sailors ' wives and widows . A muffled silence reigned , only broken at times by the shrieks of the storm . Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from the other , as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable . The chaplain had not yet arrived ; and there these silent islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets , with black borders , masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit . Three of them ran something like the following , but I do not pretend to quote :--

Tashtego stood in the bows . He was full of the fire of the hunt . He hated Pip for a poltroon . Snatching the boat - knife from its sheath , he suspended its sharp edge over the line , and turning towards Stubb , exclaimed interrogatively , " Cut ?" Meantime Pip ' s blue , choked face plainly looked , Do , for God ' s sake ! All passed in a flash . In less than half a minute , this entire thing happened .

CHAPTER 60

" Who - e debel you ?" -- he at last said --" you no speak - e , dam - me , I kill - e ." And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the dark .

Stubb ' s exordium to his crew is given here at large , because he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general , and especially in inculcating the religion of rowing . But you must not suppose from this specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with his congregation . Not at all ; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity . He would say the most terrific things to his crew , in a tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury , and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a spice to the fun , that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without pulling for dear life , and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing . Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself , so loungingly managed his steering - oar , and so broadly gaped -- open - mouthed at times -- that the mere sight of such a yawning commander , by sheer force of contrast , acted like a charm upon the crew . Then again , Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists , whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous , as to put all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them .

TASHTEGO . ( QUIETLY SMOKING ) That ' s a white man ; he calls that fun : humph ! I save my sweat .

" With what ?" shouted I .

The Dart .

It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman , that a most significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod ' s crew ; an event most lamentable ; and which ended in providing the sometimes madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own .

But no more of this blubbering now , we are going a - whaling , and there is plenty of that yet to come . Let us scrape the ice from our frosted feet , and see what sort of a place this " Spouter " may be .

I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia ; expressing the idea very plainly , so that he could take it in . He said no ; only upon one memorable occasion . It was after a great feast given by his father the king , on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o ' clock in the afternoon , and all cooked and eaten that very evening .

But before going further , it is important to mention here , that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance , yet it is seldom done ; and when done , is still less frequently successful , on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as compared with the lance , which in effect become serious drawbacks . As a general thing , therefore , you must first get fast to a whale , before any pitchpoling comes into play .

' Twas not so hard a task . I thought to find one stubborn , at the least ; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels , and they revolve . Or , if you will , like so many ant - hills of powder , they all stand before me ; and I their match . Oh , hard ! that to fire others , the match itself must needs be wasting ! What I ' ve dared , I ' ve willed ; and what I ' ve willed , I ' ll do ! They think me mad -- Starbuck does ; but I ' m demoniac , I am madness maddened ! That wild madness that ' s only calm to comprehend itself ! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered ; and -- Aye ! I lost this leg . I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer . Now , then , be the prophet and the fulfiller one . That ' s more than ye , ye great gods , ever were . I laugh and hoot at ye , ye cricket - players , ye pugilists , ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes ! I will not say as schoolboys do to bullies -- Take some one of your own size ; don ' t pommel ME ! No , ye ' ve knocked me down , and I am up again ; but YE have run and hidden . Come forth from behind your cotton bags ! I have no long gun to reach ye . Come , Ahab ' s compliments to ye ; come and see if ye can swerve me . Swerve me ? ye cannot swerve me , else ye swerve yourselves ! man has ye there . Swerve me ? The path to my fixed purpose is laid with iron rails , whereon my soul is grooved to run . Over unsounded gorges , through the rifled hearts of mountains , under torrents ' beds , unerringly I rush ! Naught ' s an obstacle , naught ' s an angle to the iron way !

" No , no , no ; I wasn ' t aware of that ," said Elijah , slowly and wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg , with the most unaccountable glances .

Thus much being said , attend now , I pray you , to that marvellous and -- in this particular instance -- almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Whale ' s great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped .

" No , cook ; go on , go on ."

" Man overboard !" cried Daggoo , who amid the general consternation first came to his senses . " Swing the bucket this way !" and putting one foot into it , so as the better to secure his slippery hand - hold on the whip itself , the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head , almost before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom . Meantime , there was a terrible tumult . Looking over the side , they saw the before lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea , as if that moment seized with some momentous idea ; whereas it was only the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which he had sunk ." Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg -- that ' s who ye are speaking to , young man . It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted out for the voyage , and supplied with all her needs , including crew . We are part owners and agents . But as I was going to say , if thou wantest to know what whaling is , as thou tellest ye do , I can put ye in a way of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it , past backing out . Clap eye on Captain Ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he has only one leg ."

I will now refer you to Langsdorff ' s Voyages for a little circumstance in point , peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof . Langsdorff , you must know by the way , was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern ' s famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century . Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter :

Meantime , they hauled more and more upon their lines , till close flanking him on both sides , Stubb answered Flask with lance for lance ; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went , while the multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale ' s body , rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled , thirstily drinking at every new gash , as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains that poured from the smitten rock .

" God bless ye , and have ye in His holy keeping , men ," murmured old Bildad , almost incoherently . " I hope ye ' ll have fine weather now , so that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye -- a pleasant sun is all he needs , and ye ' ll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go . Be careful in the hunt , ye mates . Don ' t stave the boats needlessly , ye harpooneers ; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent . within the year . Don ' t forget your prayers , either . Mr . Starbuck , mind that cooper don ' t waste the spare staves . Oh ! the sail - needles are in the green locker ! Don ' t whale it too much a ' Lord ' s days , men ; but don ' t miss a fair chance either , that ' s rejecting Heaven ' s good gifts . Have an eye to the molasses tierce , Mr . Stubb ; it was a little leaky , I thought . If ye touch at the islands , Mr . Flask , beware of fornication . Good - bye , good - bye ! Don ' t keep that cheese too long down in the hold , Mr . Starbuck ; it ' ll spoil . Be careful with the butter -- twenty cents the pound it was , and mind ye , if --"

It was during the more pleasant weather , that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast - head came round .

" Cough be damned ! Pass along that return bucket ."

" Come hither to me -- hither , hither ," said Peleg , with a significance in his eye that almost startled me . " Look ye , lad ; never say that on board the Pequod . Never say it anywhere . Captain Ahab did not name himself . ' Twas a foolish , ignorant whim of his crazy , widowed mother , who died when he was only a twelvemonth old . And yet the old squaw Tistig , at Gayhead , said that the name would somehow prove prophetic . And , perhaps , other fools like her may tell thee the same . I wish to warn thee . It ' s a lie . I know Captain Ahab well ; I ' ve sailed with him as mate years ago ; I know what he is -- a good man -- not a pious , good man , like Bildad , but a swearing good man -- something like me -- only there ' s a good deal more of him . Aye , aye , I know that he was never very jolly ; and I know that on the passage home , he was a little out of his mind for a spell ; but it was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump that brought that about , as any one might see . I know , too , that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale , he ' s been a kind of moody -- desperate moody , and savage sometimes ; but that will all pass off . And once for all , let me tell thee and assure thee , young man , it ' s better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one . So good - bye to thee -- and wrong not Captain Ahab , because he happens to have a wicked name . Besides , my boy , he has a wife -- not three voyages wedded -- a sweet , resigned girl . Think of that ; by that sweet girl that old man has a child : hold ye then there can be any utter , hopeless harm in Ahab ? No , no , my lad ; stricken , blasted , if he be , Ahab has his humanities !"

Then , again , in 1825 , Bernard Germain , Count de Lacepede , a great naturalist , published a scientific systemized whale book , wherein are several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan . All these are not only incorrect , but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale ( that is to say , the Right whale ), even Scoresby , a long experienced man as touching that species , declares not to have its counterpart in nature .

CHAPTER 59

Look now at Stubb ; a man who from his humorous , deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies , was specially qualified to excel in pitchpoling . Look at him ; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the flying boat ; wrapt in fleecy foam , the towing whale is forty feet ahead . Handling the long lance lightly , glancing twice or thrice along its length to see if it be exactly straight , Stubb whistlingly gathers up the coil of the warp in one hand , so as to secure its free end in his grasp , leaving the rest unobstructed . Then holding the lance full before his waistband ' s middle , he levels it at the whale ; when , covering him with it , he steadily depresses the butt - end in his hand , thereby elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm , fifteen feet in the air . He minds you somewhat of a juggler , balancing a long staff on his chin . Next moment with a rapid , nameless impulse , in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming distance , and quivers in the life spot of the whale . Instead of sparkling water , he now spouts red blood .

" On one occasion I saw two of these monsters ( whales ) probably male and female , slowly swimming , one after the other , within less than a stone ' s throw of the shore " ( Terra Del Fuego ), " over which the beech tree extended its branches ." -- DARWIN ' S VOYAGE OF A NATURALIST .

Now having a night , a day , and still another night following before me in New Bedford , ere I could embark for my destined port , it became a matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile . It was a very dubious - looking , nay , a very dark and dismal night , bitingly cold and cheerless . I knew no one in the place . With anxious grapnels I had sounded my pocket , and only brought up a few pieces of silver ,-- So , wherever you go , Ishmael , said I to myself , as I stood in the middle of a dreary street shouldering my bag , and comparing the gloom towards the north with the darkness towards the south -- wherever in your wisdom you may conclude to lodge for the night , my dear Ishmael , be sure to inquire the price , and don ' t be too particular .

Walking the deck with quick , side - lunging strides , Ahab commanded the t ' gallant sails and royals to be set , and every stunsail spread . The best man in the ship must take the helm . Then , with every mast - head manned , the piled - up craft rolled down before the wind . The strange , upheaving , lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows of so many sails , made the buoyant , hovering deck to feel like air beneath the feet ; while still she rushed along , as if two antagonistic influences were struggling in her -- one to mount direct to heaven , the other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal . And had you watched Ahab ' s face that night , you would have thought that in him also two different things were warring . While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck , every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin - tap . On life and death this old man walked . But though the ship so swiftly sped , and though from every eye , like arrows , the eager glances shot , yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night . Every sailor swore he saw it once , but not a second time .

" We have been at great trouble , and peril , and some expense , and is all that to go to the Duke ' s benefit ; we getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters ?"

Be it said , however , that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species . Where one of that sort go down , twenty Right Whales do . This difference in the species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale ; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton ; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free . But there are instances where , after the lapse of many hours or several days , the sunken whale again rises , more buoyant than in life . But the reason of this is obvious . Gases are generated in him ; he swells to a prodigious magnitude ; becomes a sort of animal balloon . A line - of - battle ship could hardly keep him under then . In the Shore Whaling , on soundings , among the Bays of New Zealand , when a Right Whale gives token of sinking , they fasten buoys to him , with plenty of rope ; so that when the body has gone down , they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again .

I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas , something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale - ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there . It may be worth while , therefore , previously to advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman . It is time to set the world right in this matter , by proving such pictures of the whale all wrong .

CHAPTER 70

" May be ; may be . But it ' s made a wise man of me , Flask . D ' ye see Ahab standing there , sideways looking over the stern ? Well , the best thing you can do , Flask , is to let the old man alone ; never speak to him , whatever he says . Halloa ! What ' s that he shouts ? Hark !"

" Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks , the infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over ; he rears his enormous head , and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him ; he rushes at the boats with his head ; they are propelled before him with vast swiftness , and sometimes utterly destroyed . ... It is a matter of great astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so interesting , and , in a commercial point of view , so important an animal ( as the Sperm Whale ) should have been so entirely neglected , or should have excited so little curiosity among the numerous , and many of them competent observers , that of late years , must have possessed the most abundant and the most convenient opportunities of witnessing their habitudes ." -- THOMAS BEALE ' S HISTORY OF THE SPERM WHALE , 1839 .

But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on board , as she did the last day , with a long oil - ladle in one hand , and a still longer whaling lance in the other . Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward . As for Bildad , he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed , and at every fresh arrival , down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper . Every once in a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den , roaring at the men down the hatchways , roaring up to the riggers at the mast - head , and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam .

It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale ' s prodigious head hanging to the Pequod ' s side . But we must let it continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it . For the present other matters press , and the best we can do now for the head , is to pray heaven the tackles may hold .

" But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct , he kept his own counsel ( at least till all was over ) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles of his heart . He was in Radney the chief mate ' s watch ; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than half way to meet his doom , after the scene at the rigging , he insisted , against the express counsel of the captain , upon resuming the head of his watch at night . Upon this , and one or two other circumstances , Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge .

I considered the matter a moment , and then up stairs we went , and I was ushered into a small room , cold as a clam , and furnished , sure enough , with a prodigious bed , almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep abreast .

The hours wore on ;-- Ahab now shut up within his cabin ; anon , pacing the deck , with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect .

" No , sir ; not yet ," said Stubb , emboldened , " I will not tamely be called a dog , sir ."

CHAPTER 17

ALL . The squall ! the squall ! jump , my jollies ! ( THEY SCATTER .)

" Where - away ?"

Secondly : The ship Union , also of Nantucket , was in the year 1807 totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset , but the authentic particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter , though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it .

But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order , a pale man , with a bandaged head , arrested them -- Radney the chief mate . Ever since the blow , he had lain in his berth ; but that morning , hearing the tumult on the deck , he had crept out , and thus far had watched the whole scene . Such was the state of his mouth , that he could hardly speak ; but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the captain dared not attempt , he snatched the rope and advanced to his pinioned foe .

" Dost know nothing at all about whaling , I dare say -- eh ?

Ere long , from his first visit in the air , he withdrew into his cabin . But after that morning , he was every day visible to the crew ; either standing in his pivot - hole , or seated upon an ivory stool he had ; or heavily walking the deck . As the sky grew less gloomy ; indeed , began to grow a little genial , he became still less and less a recluse ; as if , when the ship had sailed from home , nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded . And , by and by , it came to pass , that he was almost continually in the air ; but , as yet , for all that he said , or perceptibly did , on the at last sunny deck , he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast . But the Pequod was only making a passage now ; not regularly cruising ; nearly all whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to , so that there was little or nothing , out of himself , to employ or excite Ahab , now ; and thus chase away , for that one interval , the clouds that layer upon layer were piled upon his brow , as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon .

" I think I remember some such story as you were telling ," said Flask , when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the ship , " but I can ' t remember where ."

" He wants you to take a glass of wine with him ," said the interpreter .

BOOK I . ( FOLIO ), CHAPTER I . ( SPERM WHALE ).-- This whale , among the English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale , and the Physeter whale , and the Anvil Headed whale , is the present Cachalot of the French , and the Pottsfich of the Germans , and the Macrocephalus of the Long Words . He is , without doubt , the largest inhabitant of the globe ; the most formidable of all whales to encounter ; the most majestic in aspect ; and lastly , by far the most valuable in commerce ; he being the only creature from which that valuable substance , spermaceti , is obtained . All his peculiarities will , in many other places , be enlarged upon . It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do . Philologically considered , it is absurd . Some centuries ago , when the Sperm whale was almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality , and when his oil was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish ; in those days spermaceti , it would seem , was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale . It was the idea also , that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses . In those times , also , spermaceti was exceedingly scarce , not being used for light , but only as an ointment and medicament . It was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb . When , as I opine , in the course of time , the true nature of spermaceti became known , its original name was still retained by the dealers ; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity . And so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti was really derived .

For some time past , though at intervals only , the unaccompanied , secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen . But not all of them knew of his existence ; only a few of them , comparatively , had knowingly seen him ; while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him , was small indeed . For , owing to the large number of whale - cruisers ; the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference , many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes , so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch , to encounter a single news - telling sail of any sort ; the inordinate length of each separate voyage ; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home ; all these , with other circumstances , direct and indirect , long obstructed the spread through the whole world - wide whaling - fleet of the special individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick . It was hardly to be doubted , that several vessels reported to have encountered , at such or such a time , or on such or such a meridian , a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity , which whale , after doing great mischief to his assailants , had completely escaped them ; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption , I say , that the whale in question must have been no other than Moby Dick . Yet as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not unfrequent instances of great ferocity , cunning , and malice in the monster attacked ; therefore it was , that those who by accident ignorantly gave battle to Moby Dick ; such hunters , perhaps , for the most part , were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred , more , as it were , to the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large , than to the individual cause . In that way , mostly , the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded .

" Queequeg no care what god made him shark ," said the savage , agonizingly lifting his hand up and down ; " wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god ; but de god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin ."

Wet , drenched through , and shivering cold , despairing of ship or boat , we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on . The mist still spread over the sea , the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat . Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet , hollowing his hand to his ear . We all heard a faint creaking , as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by the storm . The sound came nearer and nearer ; the thick mists were dimly parted by a huge , vague form . Affrighted , we all sprang into the sea as the ship at last loomed into view , bearing right down upon us within a distance of not much more than its length .

Even as it was , I thought something of slipping out of the window , but it was the second floor back . I am no coward , but what to make of this head - peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension . Ignorance is the parent of fear , and being completely nonplussed and confounded about the stranger , I confess I was now as much afraid of him as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of night . In fact , I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then to address him , and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed inexplicable in him .

" No ," said Peleg , " and he hasn ' t been baptized right either , or it would have washed some of that devil ' s blue off his face ."

" A mariner sat in the shrouds one night , The wind was piping free ; Now bright , now dimmed , was the moonlight pale , And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale , As it floundered in the sea ." -- ELIZABETH OAKES SMITH .

The Castaway .

" The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the water - works at London Bridge , and the water roaring in its passage through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood gushing from the whale ' s heart ." -- PALEY ' S THEOLOGY .

With memories like these in him , and , moreover , given to a certain superstitiousness , as has been said ; the courage of this Starbuck which could , nevertheless , still flourish , must indeed have been extreme . But it was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized , and with such terrible experiences and remembrances as he had ; it was not in nature that these things should fail in latently engendering an element in him , which , under suitable circumstances , would break out from its confinement , and burn all his courage up . And brave as he might be , it was that sort of bravery chiefly , visible in some intrepid men , which , while generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas , or winds , or whales , or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world , yet cannot withstand those more terrific , because more spiritual terrors , which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged and mighty man .

Ship and boat diverged ; the cold , damp night breeze blew between ; a screaming gull flew overhead ; the two hulls wildly rolled ; we gave three heavy - hearted cheers , and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic .

" Who ' s Old Thunder ?" said I , again riveted with the insane earnestness of his manner .

" Good night , landlord ," said I , " you may go ."

"' Will you be so good as to bring the priest also , Don ?'

" Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him ; One would think the deep to be hoary ." -- JOB .

CHAPTER 53

Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me , I had noticed that the seamen at the main and mizzen - mast - heads were already drowsy . So that at last all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars , and for every swing that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman . The waves , too , nodded their indolent crests ; and across the wide trance of the sea , east nodded to west , and the sun over all .

Next morning , Monday , after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber , for a block , I settled my own and comrade ' s bill ; using , however , my comrade ' s money . The grinning landlord , as well as the boarders , seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between me and Queequeg -- especially as Peter Coffin ' s cock and bull stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person whom I now companied with .

As he mounted the deck , Ahab abruptly accosted him , without at all heeding what he had in his hand ; but in his broken lingo , the German soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale ; immediately turning the conversation to his lamp - feeder and oil can , with some remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in profound darkness -- his last drop of Bremen oil being gone , and not a single flying - fish yet captured to supply the deficiency ; concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically called a CLEAN one ( that is , an empty one ), well deserving the name of Jungfrau or the Virgin .

The Prophet .

Every whale - ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships , whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed , depends upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans . Thus , most letters never reach their mark ; and many are only received after attaining an age of two or three years or more .

Though many of the whales , as has been said , were in violent motion , yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor retreated , but collectively remained in one place . As is customary in those cases , the boats at once separated , each making for some one lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal . In about three minutes ' time , Queequeg ' s harpoon was flung ; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces , and then running away with us like light , steered straight for the heart of the herd . Though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such circumstances , is in no wise unprecedented ; and indeed is almost always more or less anticipated ; yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery . For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal , you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a delirious throb .

Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo , a gigantic , coal - black negro - savage , with a lion - like tread -- an Ahasuerus to behold . Suspended from his ears were two golden hoops , so large that the sailors called them ring - bolts , and would talk of securing the top - sail halyards to them . In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler , lying in a lonely bay on his native coast . And never having been anywhere in the world but in Africa , Nantucket , and the pagan harbors most frequented by whalemen ; and having now led for many years the bold life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what manner of men they shipped ; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues , and erect as a giraffe , moved about the decks in all the pomp of six feet five in his socks . There was a corporeal humility in looking up at him ; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress . Curious to tell , this imperial negro , Ahasuerus Daggoo , was the Squire of little Flask , who looked like a chess - man beside him . As for the residue of the Pequod ' s company , be it said , that at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the mast employed in the American whale fishery , are Americans born , though pretty nearly all the officers are . Herein it is the same with the American whale fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies , and the engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and Railroads . The same , I say , because in all these cases the native American liberally provides the brains , the rest of the world as generously supplying the muscles . No small number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores , where the outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores . In like manner , the Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London , put in at the Shetland Islands , to receive the full complement of their crew . Upon the passage homewards , they drop them there again . How it is , there is no telling , but Islanders seem to make the best whalemen . They were nearly all Islanders in the Pequod , ISOLATOES too , I call such , not acknowledging the common continent of men , but each ISOLATO living on a separate continent of his own . Yet now , federated along one keel , what a set these Isolatoes were ! An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles of the sea , and all the ends of the earth , accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay the world ' s grievances before that bar from which not very many of them ever come back . Black Little Pip -- he never did -- oh , no ! he went before . Poor Alabama boy ! On the grim Pequod ' s forecastle , ye shall ere long see him , beating his tambourine ; prelusive of the eternal time , when sent for , to the great quarter - deck on high , he was bid strike in with angels , and beat his tambourine in glory ; called a coward here , hailed a hero there !

Coffin ?-- Spouter ?-- Rather ominous in that particular connexion , thought I . But it is a common name in Nantucket , they say , and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there . As the light looked so dim , and the place , for the time , looked quiet enough , and the dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt district , and as the swinging sign had a poverty - stricken sort of creak to it , I thought that here was the very spot for cheap lodgings , and the best of pea coffee .

Almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enormous mass dropped into the sea , like Niagara ' s Table - Rock into the whirlpool ; the suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it , to far down her glittering copper ; and all caught their breath , as half swinging -- now over the sailors ' heads , and now over the water -- Daggoo , through a thick mist of spray , was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles , while poor , buried - alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea ! But hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away , when a naked figure with a boarding - sword in his hand , was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks . The next , a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue . One packed rush was made to the side , and every eye counted every ripple , as moment followed moment , and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen . Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside , and pushed a little off from the ship .

" Do with it ? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home ;-- what else ?"

Sunset .

" Broke ," said I --" BROKE , do you mean ?"

" Woo - hoo ! Wa - hee !" screamed the Gay - Header in reply , raising some old war - whoop to the skies ; as every oarsman in the strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading stroke which the eager Indian gave .

" Aye , aye , I thought so . Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship ."

Folding back the counterpane , I stooped over the bed . Though none of the most elegant , it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well . I then glanced round the room ; and besides the bedstead and centre table , could see no other furniture belonging to the place , but a rude shelf , the four walls , and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale . Of things not properly belonging to the room , there was a hammock lashed up , and thrown upon the floor in one corner ; also a large seaman ' s bag , containing the harpooneer ' s wardrobe , no doubt in lieu of a land trunk . Likewise , there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf over the fire - place , and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed .

Heads or Tails .

Bethink yourself also of another thing . When two large , loaded Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks , what do the sailors do ? They do not suspend between them , at the point of coming contact , any merely hard substance , like iron or wood . No , they hold there a large , round wad of tow and cork , enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox - hide . That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow - bars . By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at . But supplementary to this , it has hypothetically occurred to me , that as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them , capable , at will , of distension or contraction ; and as the Sperm Whale , as far as I know , has no such provision in him ; considering , too , the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the surface , and anon swims with it high elevated out of the water ; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope ; considering the unique interior of his head ; it has hypothetically occurred to me , I say , that those mystical lung - celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with the outer air , so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and contraction . If this be so , fancy the irresistibleness of that might , to which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes .

" You said up there , didn ' t you ? and now look yourself , and see where your tongs are pointing . But , perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber ' s hole , cook ; but , no , no , cook , you don ' t get there , except you go the regular way , round by the rigging . It ' s a ticklish business , but must be done , or else it ' s no go . But none of us are in heaven yet . Drop your tongs , cook , and hear my orders . Do ye hear ? Hold your hat in one hand , and clap t ' other a ' top of your heart , when I ' m giving my orders , cook . What ! that your heart , there ?-- that ' s your gizzard ! Aloft ! aloft !-- that ' s it -- now you have it . Hold it there now , and pay attention ."

" On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie , Don ; but -- I crave your courtesy -- may be , you shall soon hear further of all that . Now , gentlemen , in square - sail brigs and three - masted ships , well - nigh as large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far Manilla ; this Lakeman , in the land - locked heart of our America , had yet been nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly connected with the open ocean . For in their interflowing aggregate , those grand fresh - water seas of ours ,-- Erie , and Ontario , and Huron , and Superior , and Michigan ,-- possess an ocean - like expansiveness , with many of the ocean ' s noblest traits ; with many of its rimmed varieties of races and of climes . They contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles , even as the Polynesian waters do ; in large part , are shored by two great contrasting nations , as the Atlantic is ; they furnish long maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East , dotted all round their banks ; here and there are frowned upon by batteries , and by the goat - like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw ; they have heard the fleet thunderings of naval victories ; at intervals , they yield their beaches to wild barbarians , whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams ; for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests , where the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies ; those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey , and silken creatures whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors ; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland , as well as Winnebago villages ; they float alike the full - rigged merchant ship , the armed cruiser of the State , the steamer , and the beech canoe ; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as direful as any that lash the salted wave ; they know what shipwrecks are , for out of sight of land , however inland , they have drowned full many a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew . Thus , gentlemen , though an inlander , Steelkilt was wild - ocean born , and wild - ocean nurtured ; as much of an audacious mariner as any . And for Radney , though in his infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach , to nurse at his maternal sea ; though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific ; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods seaman , fresh from the latitudes of buck - horn handled bowie - knives . Yet was this Nantucketer a man with some good - hearted traits ; and this Lakeman , a mariner , who though a sort of devil indeed , might yet by inflexible firmness , only tempered by that common decency of human recognition which is the meanest slave ' s right ; thus treated , this Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile . At all events , he had proved so thus far ; but Radney was doomed and made mad , and Steelkilt -- but , gentlemen , you shall hear .

Instantly the captain ran forward , and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the cutting - tackles , and at once cast loose the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship .

Another thing . Flask was the last person down at the dinner , and Flask is the first man up . Consider ! For hereby Flask ' s dinner was badly jammed in point of time . Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him ; and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear . If Stubb even , who is but a peg higher than Flask , happens to have but a small appetite , and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast , then Flask must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day ; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck . Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private , that ever since he had arisen to the dignity of an officer , from that moment he had never known what it was to be otherwise than hungry , more or less . For what he ate did not so much relieve his hunger , as keep it immortal in him . Peace and satisfaction , thought Flask , have for ever departed from my stomach . I am an officer ; but , how I wish I could fish a bit of old - fashioned beef in the forecastle , as I used to when I was before the mast . There ' s the fruits of promotion now ; there ' s the vanity of glory : there ' s the insanity of life ! Besides , if it were so that any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask ' s official capacity , all that sailor had to do , in order to obtain ample vengeance , was to go aft at dinner - time , and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky - light , sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab .

Thus the whale - line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils , twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction . All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions ; so that to the timid eye of the landsman , they seem as Indian jugglers , with the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs . Nor can any son of mortal woman , for the first time , seat himself amid those hempen intricacies , and while straining his utmost at the oar , bethink him that at any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted , and all these horrible contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings ; he cannot be thus circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones to quiver in him like a shaken jelly . Yet habit -- strange thing ! what cannot habit accomplish ?-- Gayer sallies , more merry mirth , better jokes , and brighter repartees , you never heard over your mahogany , than you will hear over the half - inch white cedar of the whale - boat , when thus hung in hangman ' s nooses ; and , like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward , the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death , with a halter around every neck , as you may say .

" Ah , my dear fellow , you can ' t fool us that way -- you can ' t fool us . It is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him ."

" WHALE . ... It is more immediately from the Dut . and Ger . WALLEN ; A . S . WALW - IAN , to roll , to wallow ." -- RICHARDSON ' S DICTIONARY

So fare thee well , poor devil of a Sub - Sub , whose commentator I am . Thou belongest to that hopeless , sallow tribe which no wine of this world will ever warm ; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy - strong ; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit , and feel poor - devilish , too ; and grow convivial upon tears ; and say to them bluntly , with full eyes and empty glasses , and in not altogether unpleasant sadness -- Give it up , Sub - Subs ! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world , by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless ! Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye ! But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal - mast with your hearts ; for your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven - storied heavens , and making refugees of long - pampered Gabriel , Michael , and Raphael , against your coming . Here ye strike but splintered hearts together -- there , ye shall strike unsplinterable glasses !

" Do you is all sharks , and by natur wery woracious , yet I zay to you , fellow - critters , dat dat woraciousness --' top dat dam slappin ' ob de tail ! How you tink to hear , spose you keep up such a dam slappin ' and bitin ' dare ?"

Now comes the Baling of the Case . But to comprehend it aright , you must know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated upon .

All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air . But it bade fair to outstrip them ; it flew on and on , as a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the hills .

The Specksynder .

" Mrs . Hussey ," said I , " he ' s ALIVE at all events ; so leave us , if you please , and I will see to this strange affair myself ."

PORTUGUESE SAILOR . How the sea rolls swashing ' gainst the side ! Stand by for reefing , hearties ! the winds are just crossing swords , pell - mell they ' ll go lunging presently .

But there was no time for shuddering , for now the savage went about something that completely fascinated my attention , and convinced me that he must indeed be a heathen . Going to his heavy grego , or wrapall , or dreadnaught , which he had previously hung on a chair , he fumbled in the pockets , and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch on its back , and exactly the colour of a three days ' old Congo baby . Remembering the embalmed head , at first I almost thought that this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner . But seeing that it was not at all limber , and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony , I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol , which indeed it proved to be . For now the savage goes up to the empty fire - place , and removing the papered fire - board , sets up this little hunch - backed image , like a tenpin , between the andirons . The chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty , so that I thought this fire - place made a very appropriate little shrine or chapel for his Congo idol .

"' What are you making there ?' said a shipmate .

Returning from my first morning stroll , I again sallied out upon this special errand . The sky had changed from clear , sunny cold , to driving sleet and mist . Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called bearskin , I fought my way against the stubborn storm . Entering , I found a small scattered congregation of sailors , and sailors ' wives and widows . A muffled silence reigned , only broken at times by the shrieks of the storm . Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from the other , as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable . The chaplain had not yet arrived ; and there these silent islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets , with black borders , masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit . Three of them ran something like the following , but I do not pretend to quote :--

Tashtego stood in the bows . He was full of the fire of the hunt . He hated Pip for a poltroon . Snatching the boat - knife from its sheath , he suspended its sharp edge over the line , and turning towards Stubb , exclaimed interrogatively , " Cut ?" Meantime Pip ' s blue , choked face plainly looked , Do , for God ' s sake ! All passed in a flash . In less than half a minute , this entire thing happened .

CHAPTER 60

" Who - e debel you ?" -- he at last said --" you no speak - e , dam - me , I kill - e ." And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the dark .

Stubb ' s exordium to his crew is given here at large , because he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general , and especially in inculcating the religion of rowing . But you must not suppose from this specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with his congregation . Not at all ; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity . He would say the most terrific things to his crew , in a tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury , and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a spice to the fun , that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without pulling for dear life , and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing . Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself , so loungingly managed his steering - oar , and so broadly gaped -- open - mouthed at times -- that the mere sight of such a yawning commander , by sheer force of contrast , acted like a charm upon the crew . Then again , Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists , whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous , as to put all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them .

TASHTEGO . ( QUIETLY SMOKING ) That ' s a white man ; he calls that fun : humph ! I save my sweat .

" With what ?" shouted I .

The Dart .

It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman , that a most significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod ' s crew ; an event most lamentable ; and which ended in providing the sometimes madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own .

But no more of this blubbering now , we are going a - whaling , and there is plenty of that yet to come . Let us scrape the ice from our frosted feet , and see what sort of a place this " Spouter " may be .

I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia ; expressing the idea very plainly , so that he could take it in . He said no ; only upon one memorable occasion . It was after a great feast given by his father the king , on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o ' clock in the afternoon , and all cooked and eaten that very evening .

But before going further , it is important to mention here , that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance , yet it is seldom done ; and when done , is still less frequently successful , on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as compared with the lance , which in effect become serious drawbacks . As a general thing , therefore , you must first get fast to a whale , before any pitchpoling comes into play .

' Twas not so hard a task . I thought to find one stubborn , at the least ; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels , and they revolve . Or , if you will , like so many ant - hills of powder , they all stand before me ; and I their match . Oh , hard ! that to fire others , the match itself must needs be wasting ! What I ' ve dared , I ' ve willed ; and what I ' ve willed , I ' ll do ! They think me mad -- Starbuck does ; but I ' m demoniac , I am madness maddened ! That wild madness that ' s only calm to comprehend itself ! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered ; and -- Aye ! I lost this leg . I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer . Now , then , be the prophet and the fulfiller one . That ' s more than ye , ye great gods , ever were . I laugh and hoot at ye , ye cricket - players , ye pugilists , ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes ! I will not say as schoolboys do to bullies -- Take some one of your own size ; don ' t pommel ME ! No , ye ' ve knocked me down , and I am up again ; but YE have run and hidden . Come forth from behind your cotton bags ! I have no long gun to reach ye . Come , Ahab ' s compliments to ye ; come and see if ye can swerve me . Swerve me ? ye cannot swerve me , else ye swerve yourselves ! man has ye there . Swerve me ? The path to my fixed purpose is laid with iron rails , whereon my soul is grooved to run . Over unsounded gorges , through the rifled hearts of mountains , under torrents ' beds , unerringly I rush ! Naught ' s an obstacle , naught ' s an angle to the iron way !

" No , no , no ; I wasn ' t aware of that ," said Elijah , slowly and wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg , with the most unaccountable glances .

Thus much being said , attend now , I pray you , to that marvellous and -- in this particular instance -- almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Whale ' s great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped .

" No , cook ; go on , go on ."

" Man overboard !" cried Daggoo , who amid the general consternation first came to his senses . " Swing the bucket this way !" and putting one foot into it , so as the better to secure his slippery hand - hold on the whip itself , the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head , almost before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom . Meantime , there was a terrible tumult . Looking over the side , they saw the before lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea , as if that moment seized with some momentous idea ; whereas it was only the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which he had sunk ." Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg -- that ' s who ye are speaking to , young man . It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted out for the voyage , and supplied with all her needs , including crew . We are part owners and agents . But as I was going to say , if thou wantest to know what whaling is , as thou tellest ye do , I can put ye in a way of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it , past backing out . Clap eye on Captain Ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he has only one leg ."

I will now refer you to Langsdorff ' s Voyages for a little circumstance in point , peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof . Langsdorff , you must know by the way , was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern ' s famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century . Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter :

Meantime , they hauled more and more upon their lines , till close flanking him on both sides , Stubb answered Flask with lance for lance ; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went , while the multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale ' s body , rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled , thirstily drinking at every new gash , as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains that poured from the smitten rock .

" God bless ye , and have ye in His holy keeping , men ," murmured old Bildad , almost incoherently . " I hope ye ' ll have fine weather now , so that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye -- a pleasant sun is all he needs , and ye ' ll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go . Be careful in the hunt , ye mates . Don ' t stave the boats needlessly , ye harpooneers ; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent . within the year . Don ' t forget your prayers , either . Mr . Starbuck , mind that cooper don ' t waste the spare staves . Oh ! the sail - needles are in the green locker ! Don ' t whale it too much a ' Lord ' s days , men ; but don ' t miss a fair chance either , that ' s rejecting Heaven ' s good gifts . Have an eye to the molasses tierce , Mr . Stubb ; it was a little leaky , I thought . If ye touch at the islands , Mr . Flask , beware of fornication . Good - bye , good - bye ! Don ' t keep that cheese too long down in the hold , Mr . Starbuck ; it ' ll spoil . Be careful with the butter -- twenty cents the pound it was , and mind ye , if --"

It was during the more pleasant weather , that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast - head came round .

" Cough be damned ! Pass along that return bucket ."

" Come hither to me -- hither , hither ," said Peleg , with a significance in his eye that almost startled me . " Look ye , lad ; never say that on board the Pequod . Never say it anywhere . Captain Ahab did not name himself . ' Twas a foolish , ignorant whim of his crazy , widowed mother , who died when he was only a twelvemonth old . And yet the old squaw Tistig , at Gayhead , said that the name would somehow prove prophetic . And , perhaps , other fools like her may tell thee the same . I wish to warn thee . It ' s a lie . I know Captain Ahab well ; I ' ve sailed with him as mate years ago ; I know what he is -- a good man -- not a pious , good man , like Bildad , but a swearing good man -- something like me -- only there ' s a good deal more of him . Aye , aye , I know that he was never very jolly ; and I know that on the passage home , he was a little out of his mind for a spell ; but it was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump that brought that about , as any one might see . I know , too , that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale , he ' s been a kind of moody -- desperate moody , and savage sometimes ; but that will all pass off . And once for all , let me tell thee and assure thee , young man , it ' s better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one . So good - bye to thee -- and wrong not Captain Ahab , because he happens to have a wicked name . Besides , my boy , he has a wife -- not three voyages wedded -- a sweet , resigned girl . Think of that ; by that sweet girl that old man has a child : hold ye then there can be any utter , hopeless harm in Ahab ? No , no , my lad ; stricken , blasted , if he be , Ahab has his humanities !"

Then , again , in 1825 , Bernard Germain , Count de Lacepede , a great naturalist , published a scientific systemized whale book , wherein are several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan . All these are not only incorrect , but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale ( that is to say , the Right whale ), even Scoresby , a long experienced man as touching that species , declares not to have its counterpart in nature .

CHAPTER 59

Look now at Stubb ; a man who from his humorous , deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies , was specially qualified to excel in pitchpoling . Look at him ; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the flying boat ; wrapt in fleecy foam , the towing whale is forty feet ahead . Handling the long lance lightly , glancing twice or thrice along its length to see if it be exactly straight , Stubb whistlingly gathers up the coil of the warp in one hand , so as to secure its free end in his grasp , leaving the rest unobstructed . Then holding the lance full before his waistband ' s middle , he levels it at the whale ; when , covering him with it , he steadily depresses the butt - end in his hand , thereby elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm , fifteen feet in the air . He minds you somewhat of a juggler , balancing a long staff on his chin . Next moment with a rapid , nameless impulse , in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming distance , and quivers in the life spot of the whale . Instead of sparkling water , he now spouts red blood .

" On one occasion I saw two of these monsters ( whales ) probably male and female , slowly swimming , one after the other , within less than a stone ' s throw of the shore " ( Terra Del Fuego ), " over which the beech tree extended its branches ." -- DARWIN ' S VOYAGE OF A NATURALIST .

Now having a night , a day , and still another night following before me in New Bedford , ere I could embark for my destined port , it became a matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile . It was a very dubious - looking , nay , a very dark and dismal night , bitingly cold and cheerless . I knew no one in the place . With anxious grapnels I had sounded my pocket , and only brought up a few pieces of silver ,-- So , wherever you go , Ishmael , said I to myself , as I stood in the middle of a dreary street shouldering my bag , and comparing the gloom towards the north with the darkness towards the south -- wherever in your wisdom you may conclude to lodge for the night , my dear Ishmael , be sure to inquire the price , and don ' t be too particular .

Walking the deck with quick , side - lunging strides , Ahab commanded the t ' gallant sails and royals to be set , and every stunsail spread . The best man in the ship must take the helm . Then , with every mast - head manned , the piled - up craft rolled down before the wind . The strange , upheaving , lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows of so many sails , made the buoyant , hovering deck to feel like air beneath the feet ; while still she rushed along , as if two antagonistic influences were struggling in her -- one to mount direct to heaven , the other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal . And had you watched Ahab ' s face that night , you would have thought that in him also two different things were warring . While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck , every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin - tap . On life and death this old man walked . But though the ship so swiftly sped , and though from every eye , like arrows , the eager glances shot , yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night . Every sailor swore he saw it once , but not a second time .

" We have been at great trouble , and peril , and some expense , and is all that to go to the Duke ' s benefit ; we getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters ?"

Be it said , however , that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species . Where one of that sort go down , twenty Right Whales do . This difference in the species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale ; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton ; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free . But there are instances where , after the lapse of many hours or several days , the sunken whale again rises , more buoyant than in life . But the reason of this is obvious . Gases are generated in him ; he swells to a prodigious magnitude ; becomes a sort of animal balloon . A line - of - battle ship could hardly keep him under then . In the Shore Whaling , on soundings , among the Bays of New Zealand , when a Right Whale gives token of sinking , they fasten buoys to him , with plenty of rope ; so that when the body has gone down , they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again .

I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas , something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale - ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there . It may be worth while , therefore , previously to advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman . It is time to set the world right in this matter , by proving such pictures of the whale all wrong .

CHAPTER 70

" May be ; may be . But it ' s made a wise man of me , Flask . D ' ye see Ahab standing there , sideways looking over the stern ? Well , the best thing you can do , Flask , is to let the old man alone ; never speak to him , whatever he says . Halloa ! What ' s that he shouts ? Hark !"

" Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks , the infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over ; he rears his enormous head , and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him ; he rushes at the boats with his head ; they are propelled before him with vast swiftness , and sometimes utterly destroyed . ... It is a matter of great astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so interesting , and , in a commercial point of view , so important an animal ( as the Sperm Whale ) should have been so entirely neglected , or should have excited so little curiosity among the numerous , and many of them competent observers , that of late years , must have possessed the most abundant and the most convenient opportunities of witnessing their habitudes ." -- THOMAS BEALE ' S HISTORY OF THE SPERM WHALE , 1839 .

But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on board , as she did the last day , with a long oil - ladle in one hand , and a still longer whaling lance in the other . Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward . As for Bildad , he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed , and at every fresh arrival , down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper . Every once in a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den , roaring at the men down the hatchways , roaring up to the riggers at the mast - head , and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam .

It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale ' s prodigious head hanging to the Pequod ' s side . But we must let it continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it . For the present other matters press , and the best we can do now for the head , is to pray heaven the tackles may hold .

" But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct , he kept his own counsel ( at least till all was over ) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles of his heart . He was in Radney the chief mate ' s watch ; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than half way to meet his doom , after the scene at the rigging , he insisted , against the express counsel of the captain , upon resuming the head of his watch at night . Upon this , and one or two other circumstances , Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge .

I considered the matter a moment , and then up stairs we went , and I was ushered into a small room , cold as a clam , and furnished , sure enough , with a prodigious bed , almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep abreast .

The hours wore on ;-- Ahab now shut up within his cabin ; anon , pacing the deck , with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect .

" No , sir ; not yet ," said Stubb , emboldened , " I will not tamely be called a dog , sir ."

CHAPTER 17

ALL . The squall ! the squall ! jump , my jollies ! ( THEY SCATTER .)

" Where - away ?"

Secondly : The ship Union , also of Nantucket , was in the year 1807 totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset , but the authentic particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter , though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it .

But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order , a pale man , with a bandaged head , arrested them -- Radney the chief mate . Ever since the blow , he had lain in his berth ; but that morning , hearing the tumult on the deck , he had crept out , and thus far had watched the whole scene . Such was the state of his mouth , that he could hardly speak ; but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the captain dared not attempt , he snatched the rope and advanced to his pinioned foe .

" Dost know nothing at all about whaling , I dare say -- eh ?

Ere long , from his first visit in the air , he withdrew into his cabin . But after that morning , he was every day visible to the crew ; either standing in his pivot - hole , or seated upon an ivory stool he had ; or heavily walking the deck . As the sky grew less gloomy ; indeed , began to grow a little genial , he became still less and less a recluse ; as if , when the ship had sailed from home , nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded . And , by and by , it came to pass , that he was almost continually in the air ; but , as yet , for all that he said , or perceptibly did , on the at last sunny deck , he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast . But the Pequod was only making a passage now ; not regularly cruising ; nearly all whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to , so that there was little or nothing , out of himself , to employ or excite Ahab , now ; and thus chase away , for that one interval , the clouds that layer upon layer were piled upon his brow , as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon .

" I think I remember some such story as you were telling ," said Flask , when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the ship , " but I can ' t remember where ."

" He wants you to take a glass of wine with him ," said the interpreter .

BOOK I . ( FOLIO ), CHAPTER I . ( SPERM WHALE ).-- This whale , among the English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale , and the Physeter whale , and the Anvil Headed whale , is the present Cachalot of the French , and the Pottsfich of the Germans , and the Macrocephalus of the Long Words . He is , without doubt , the largest inhabitant of the globe ; the most formidable of all whales to encounter ; the most majestic in aspect ; and lastly , by far the most valuable in commerce ; he being the only creature from which that valuable substance , spermaceti , is obtained . All his peculiarities will , in many other places , be enlarged upon . It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do . Philologically considered , it is absurd . Some centuries ago , when the Sperm whale was almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality , and when his oil was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish ; in those days spermaceti , it would seem , was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale . It was the idea also , that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses . In those times , also , spermaceti was exceedingly scarce , not being used for light , but only as an ointment and medicament . It was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb . When , as I opine , in the course of time , the true nature of spermaceti became known , its original name was still retained by the dealers ; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity . And so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti was really derived .

For some time past , though at intervals only , the unaccompanied , secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen . But not all of them knew of his existence ; only a few of them , comparatively , had knowingly seen him ; while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him , was small indeed . For , owing to the large number of whale - cruisers ; the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference , many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes , so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch , to encounter a single news - telling sail of any sort ; the inordinate length of each separate voyage ; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home ; all these , with other circumstances , direct and indirect , long obstructed the spread through the whole world - wide whaling - fleet of the special individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick . It was hardly to be doubted , that several vessels reported to have encountered , at such or such a time , or on such or such a meridian , a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity , which whale , after doing great mischief to his assailants , had completely escaped them ; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption , I say , that the whale in question must have been no other than Moby Dick . Yet as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not unfrequent instances of great ferocity , cunning , and malice in the monster attacked ; therefore it was , that those who by accident ignorantly gave battle to Moby Dick ; such hunters , perhaps , for the most part , were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred , more , as it were , to the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large , than to the individual cause . In that way , mostly , the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded .

" Queequeg no care what god made him shark ," said the savage , agonizingly lifting his hand up and down ; " wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god ; but de god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin ."

Wet , drenched through , and shivering cold , despairing of ship or boat , we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on . The mist still spread over the sea , the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat . Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet , hollowing his hand to his ear . We all heard a faint creaking , as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by the storm . The sound came nearer and nearer ; the thick mists were dimly parted by a huge , vague form . Affrighted , we all sprang into the sea as the ship at last loomed into view , bearing right down upon us within a distance of not much more than its length .

Even as it was , I thought something of slipping out of the window , but it was the second floor back . I am no coward , but what to make of this head - peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension . Ignorance is the parent of fear , and being completely nonplussed and confounded about the stranger , I confess I was now as much afraid of him as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of night . In fact , I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then to address him , and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed inexplicable in him .

" No ," said Peleg , " and he hasn ' t been baptized right either , or it would have washed some of that devil ' s blue off his face ."

" A mariner sat in the shrouds one night , The wind was piping free ; Now bright , now dimmed , was the moonlight pale , And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale , As it floundered in the sea ." -- ELIZABETH OAKES SMITH .

The Castaway .

" The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the water - works at London Bridge , and the water roaring in its passage through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood gushing from the whale ' s heart ." -- PALEY ' S THEOLOGY .

With memories like these in him , and , moreover , given to a certain superstitiousness , as has been said ; the courage of this Starbuck which could , nevertheless , still flourish , must indeed have been extreme . But it was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized , and with such terrible experiences and remembrances as he had ; it was not in nature that these things should fail in latently engendering an element in him , which , under suitable circumstances , would break out from its confinement , and burn all his courage up . And brave as he might be , it was that sort of bravery chiefly , visible in some intrepid men , which , while generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas , or winds , or whales , or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world , yet cannot withstand those more terrific , because more spiritual terrors , which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged and mighty man .

Ship and boat diverged ; the cold , damp night breeze blew between ; a screaming gull flew overhead ; the two hulls wildly rolled ; we gave three heavy - hearted cheers , and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic .

" Who ' s Old Thunder ?" said I , again riveted with the insane earnestness of his manner .

" Good night , landlord ," said I , " you may go ."

"' Will you be so good as to bring the priest also , Don ?'

" Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him ; One would think the deep to be hoary ." -- JOB .

CHAPTER 53

Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me , I had noticed that the seamen at the main and mizzen - mast - heads were already drowsy . So that at last all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars , and for every swing that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman . The waves , too , nodded their indolent crests ; and across the wide trance of the sea , east nodded to west , and the sun over all .

Next morning , Monday , after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber , for a block , I settled my own and comrade ' s bill ; using , however , my comrade ' s money . The grinning landlord , as well as the boarders , seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between me and Queequeg -- especially as Peter Coffin ' s cock and bull stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person whom I now companied with .

As he mounted the deck , Ahab abruptly accosted him , without at all heeding what he had in his hand ; but in his broken lingo , the German soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale ; immediately turning the conversation to his lamp - feeder and oil can , with some remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in profound darkness -- his last drop of Bremen oil being gone , and not a single flying - fish yet captured to supply the deficiency ; concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically called a CLEAN one ( that is , an empty one ), well deserving the name of Jungfrau or the Virgin .

The Prophet .

Every whale - ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships , whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed , depends upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans . Thus , most letters never reach their mark ; and many are only received after attaining an age of two or three years or more .

Though many of the whales , as has been said , were in violent motion , yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor retreated , but collectively remained in one place . As is customary in those cases , the boats at once separated , each making for some one lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal . In about three minutes ' time , Queequeg ' s harpoon was flung ; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces , and then running away with us like light , steered straight for the heart of the herd . Though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such circumstances , is in no wise unprecedented ; and indeed is almost always more or less anticipated ; yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery . For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal , you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a delirious throb .

Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo , a gigantic , coal - black negro - savage , with a lion - like tread -- an Ahasuerus to behold . Suspended from his ears were two golden hoops , so large that the sailors called them ring - bolts , and would talk of securing the top - sail halyards to them . In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler , lying in a lonely bay on his native coast . And never having been anywhere in the world but in Africa , Nantucket , and the pagan harbors most frequented by whalemen ; and having now led for many years the bold life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what manner of men they shipped ; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues , and erect as a giraffe , moved about the decks in all the pomp of six feet five in his socks . There was a corporeal humility in looking up at him ; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress . Curious to tell , this imperial negro , Ahasuerus Daggoo , was the Squire of little Flask , who looked like a chess - man beside him . As for the residue of the Pequod ' s company , be it said , that at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the mast employed in the American whale fishery , are Americans born , though pretty nearly all the officers are . Herein it is the same with the American whale fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies , and the engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and Railroads . The same , I say , because in all these cases the native American liberally provides the brains , the rest of the world as generously supplying the muscles . No small number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores , where the outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores . In like manner , the Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London , put in at the Shetland Islands , to receive the full complement of their crew . Upon the passage homewards , they drop them there again . How it is , there is no telling , but Islanders seem to make the best whalemen . They were nearly all Islanders in the Pequod , ISOLATOES too , I call such , not acknowledging the common continent of men , but each ISOLATO living on a separate continent of his own . Yet now , federated along one keel , what a set these Isolatoes were ! An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles of the sea , and all the ends of the earth , accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay the world ' s grievances before that bar from which not very many of them ever come back . Black Little Pip -- he never did -- oh , no ! he went before . Poor Alabama boy ! On the grim Pequod ' s forecastle , ye shall ere long see him , beating his tambourine ; prelusive of the eternal time , when sent for , to the great quarter - deck on high , he was bid strike in with angels , and beat his tambourine in glory ; called a coward here , hailed a hero there !

Coffin ?-- Spouter ?-- Rather ominous in that particular connexion , thought I . But it is a common name in Nantucket , they say , and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there . As the light looked so dim , and the place , for the time , looked quiet enough , and the dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt district , and as the swinging sign had a poverty - stricken sort of creak to it , I thought that here was the very spot for cheap lodgings , and the best of pea coffee .

Almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enormous mass dropped into the sea , like Niagara ' s Table - Rock into the whirlpool ; the suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it , to far down her glittering copper ; and all caught their breath , as half swinging -- now over the sailors ' heads , and now over the water -- Daggoo , through a thick mist of spray , was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles , while poor , buried - alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea ! But hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away , when a naked figure with a boarding - sword in his hand , was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks . The next , a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue . One packed rush was made to the side , and every eye counted every ripple , as moment followed moment , and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen . Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside , and pushed a little off from the ship .

" Do with it ? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home ;-- what else ?"

Sunset .

" Broke ," said I --" BROKE , do you mean ?"

" Woo - hoo ! Wa - hee !" screamed the Gay - Header in reply , raising some old war - whoop to the skies ; as every oarsman in the strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading stroke which the eager Indian gave .

" Aye , aye , I thought so . Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship ."

Folding back the counterpane , I stooped over the bed . Though none of the most elegant , it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well . I then glanced round the room ; and besides the bedstead and centre table , could see no other furniture belonging to the place , but a rude shelf , the four walls , and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale . Of things not properly belonging to the room , there was a hammock lashed up , and thrown upon the floor in one corner ; also a large seaman ' s bag , containing the harpooneer ' s wardrobe , no doubt in lieu of a land trunk . Likewise , there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf over the fire - place , and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed .

Heads or Tails .

Bethink yourself also of another thing . When two large , loaded Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks , what do the sailors do ? They do not suspend between them , at the point of coming contact , any merely hard substance , like iron or wood . No , they hold there a large , round wad of tow and cork , enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox - hide . That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow - bars . By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at . But supplementary to this , it has hypothetically occurred to me , that as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them , capable , at will , of distension or contraction ; and as the Sperm Whale , as far as I know , has no such provision in him ; considering , too , the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the surface , and anon swims with it high elevated out of the water ; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope ; considering the unique interior of his head ; it has hypothetically occurred to me , I say , that those mystical lung - celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with the outer air , so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and contraction . If this be so , fancy the irresistibleness of that might , to which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes .

" You said up there , didn ' t you ? and now look yourself , and see where your tongs are pointing . But , perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber ' s hole , cook ; but , no , no , cook , you don ' t get there , except you go the regular way , round by the rigging . It ' s a ticklish business , but must be done , or else it ' s no go . But none of us are in heaven yet . Drop your tongs , cook , and hear my orders . Do ye hear ? Hold your hat in one hand , and clap t ' other a ' top of your heart , when I ' m giving my orders , cook . What ! that your heart , there ?-- that ' s your gizzard ! Aloft ! aloft !-- that ' s it -- now you have it . Hold it there now , and pay attention ."

" On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie , Don ; but -- I crave your courtesy -- may be , you shall soon hear further of all that . Now , gentlemen , in square - sail brigs and three - masted ships , well - nigh as large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far Manilla ; this Lakeman , in the land - locked heart of our America , had yet been nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly connected with the open ocean . For in their interflowing aggregate , those grand fresh - water seas of ours ,-- Erie , and Ontario , and Huron , and Superior , and Michigan ,-- possess an ocean - like expansiveness , with many of the ocean ' s noblest traits ; with many of its rimmed varieties of races and of climes . They contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles , even as the Polynesian waters do ; in large part , are shored by two great contrasting nations , as the Atlantic is ; they furnish long maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East , dotted all round their banks ; here and there are frowned upon by batteries , and by the goat - like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw ; they have heard the fleet thunderings of naval victories ; at intervals , they yield their beaches to wild barbarians , whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams ; for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests , where the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies ; those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey , and silken creatures whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors ; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland , as well as Winnebago villages ; they float alike the full - rigged merchant ship , the armed cruiser of the State , the steamer , and the beech canoe ; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as direful as any that lash the salted wave ; they know what shipwrecks are , for out of sight of land , however inland , they have drowned full many a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew . Thus , gentlemen , though an inlander , Steelkilt was wild - ocean born , and wild - ocean nurtured ; as much of an audacious mariner as any . And for Radney , though in his infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach , to nurse at his maternal sea ; though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific ; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods seaman , fresh from the latitudes of buck - horn handled bowie - knives . Yet was this Nantucketer a man with some good - hearted traits ; and this Lakeman , a mariner , who though a sort of devil indeed , might yet by inflexible firmness , only tempered by that common decency of human recognition which is the meanest slave ' s right ; thus treated , this Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile . At all events , he had proved so thus far ; but Radney was doomed and made mad , and Steelkilt -- but , gentlemen , you shall hear .

Instantly the captain ran forward , and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the cutting - tackles , and at once cast loose the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship .

Another thing . Flask was the last person down at the dinner , and Flask is the first man up . Consider ! For hereby Flask ' s dinner was badly jammed in point of time . Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him ; and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear . If Stubb even , who is but a peg higher than Flask , happens to have but a small appetite , and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast , then Flask must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day ; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck . Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private , that ever since he had arisen to the dignity of an officer , from that moment he had never known what it was to be otherwise than hungry , more or less . For what he ate did not so much relieve his hunger , as keep it immortal in him . Peace and satisfaction , thought Flask , have for ever departed from my stomach . I am an officer ; but , how I wish I could fish a bit of old - fashioned beef in the forecastle , as I used to when I was before the mast . There ' s the fruits of promotion now ; there ' s the vanity of glory : there ' s the insanity of life ! Besides , if it were so that any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask ' s official capacity , all that sailor had to do , in order to obtain ample vengeance , was to go aft at dinner - time , and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky - light , sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab .

Thus the whale - line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils , twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction . All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions ; so that to the timid eye of the landsman , they seem as Indian jugglers , with the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs . Nor can any son of mortal woman , for the first time , seat himself amid those hempen intricacies , and while straining his utmost at the oar , bethink him that at any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted , and all these horrible contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings ; he cannot be thus circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones to quiver in him like a shaken jelly . Yet habit -- strange thing ! what cannot habit accomplish ?-- Gayer sallies , more merry mirth , better jokes , and brighter repartees , you never heard over your mahogany , than you will hear over the half - inch white cedar of the whale - boat , when thus hung in hangman ' s nooses ; and , like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward , the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death , with a halter around every neck , as you may say .

" Ah , my dear fellow , you can ' t fool us that way -- you can ' t fool us . It is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him ."

" WHALE . ... It is more immediately from the Dut . and Ger . WALLEN ; A . S . WALW - IAN , to roll , to wallow ." -- RICHARDSON ' S DICTIONARY

So fare thee well , poor devil of a Sub - Sub , whose commentator I am . Thou belongest to that hopeless , sallow tribe which no wine of this world will ever warm ; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy - strong ; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit , and feel poor - devilish , too ; and grow convivial upon tears ; and say to them bluntly , with full eyes and empty glasses , and in not altogether unpleasant sadness -- Give it up , Sub - Subs ! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world , by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless ! Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye ! But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal - mast with your hearts ; for your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven - storied heavens , and making refugees of long - pampered Gabriel , Michael , and Raphael , against your coming . Here ye strike but splintered hearts together -- there , ye shall strike unsplinterable glasses !

" Do you is all sharks , and by natur wery woracious , yet I zay to you , fellow - critters , dat dat woraciousness --' top dat dam slappin ' ob de tail ! How you tink to hear , spose you keep up such a dam slappin ' and bitin ' dare ?"

Now comes the Baling of the Case . But to comprehend it aright , you must know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated upon .

All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air . But it bade fair to outstrip them ; it flew on and on , as a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the hills .

The Specksynder .

" Mrs . Hussey ," said I , " he ' s ALIVE at all events ; so leave us , if you please , and I will see to this strange affair myself ."

PORTUGUESE SAILOR . How the sea rolls swashing ' gainst the side ! Stand by for reefing , hearties ! the winds are just crossing swords , pell - mell they ' ll go lunging presently .

But there was no time for shuddering , for now the savage went about something that completely fascinated my attention , and convinced me that he must indeed be a heathen . Going to his heavy grego , or wrapall , or dreadnaught , which he had previously hung on a chair , he fumbled in the pockets , and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch on its back , and exactly the colour of a three days ' old Congo baby . Remembering the embalmed head , at first I almost thought that this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner . But seeing that it was not at all limber , and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony , I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol , which indeed it proved to be . For now the savage goes up to the empty fire - place , and removing the papered fire - board , sets up this little hunch - backed image , like a tenpin , between the andirons . The chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty , so that I thought this fire - place made a very appropriate little shrine or chapel for his Congo idol .

"' What are you making there ?' said a shipmate .

Returning from my first morning stroll , I again sallied out upon this special errand . The sky had changed from clear , sunny cold , to driving sleet and mist . Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called bearskin , I fought my way against the stubborn storm . Entering , I found a small scattered congregation of sailors , and sailors ' wives and widows . A muffled silence reigned , only broken at times by the shrieks of the storm . Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from the other , as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable . The chaplain had not yet arrived ; and there these silent islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets , with black borders , masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit . Three of them ran something like the following , but I do not pretend to quote :--

Tashtego stood in the bows . He was full of the fire of the hunt . He hated Pip for a poltroon . Snatching the boat - knife from its sheath , he suspended its sharp edge over the line , and turning towards Stubb , exclaimed interrogatively , " Cut ?" Meantime Pip ' s blue , choked face plainly looked , Do , for God ' s sake ! All passed in a flash . In less than half a minute , this entire thing happened .

CHAPTER 60

" Who - e debel you ?" -- he at last said --" you no speak - e , dam - me , I kill - e ." And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the dark .

Stubb ' s exordium to his crew is given here at large , because he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general , and especially in inculcating the religion of rowing . But you must not suppose from this specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with his congregation . Not at all ; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity . He would say the most terrific things to his crew , in a tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury , and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a spice to the fun , that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without pulling for dear life , and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing . Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself , so loungingly managed his steering - oar , and so broadly gaped -- open - mouthed at times -- that the mere sight of such a yawning commander , by sheer force of contrast , acted like a charm upon the crew . Then again , Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists , whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous , as to put all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them .

TASHTEGO . ( QUIETLY SMOKING ) That ' s a white man ; he calls that fun : humph ! I save my sweat .

" With what ?" shouted I .

The Dart .

It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman , that a most significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod ' s crew ; an event most lamentable ; and which ended in providing the sometimes madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own .

But no more of this blubbering now , we are going a - whaling , and there is plenty of that yet to come . Let us scrape the ice from our frosted feet , and see what sort of a place this " Spouter " may be .

I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia ; expressing the idea very plainly , so that he could take it in . He said no ; only upon one memorable occasion . It was after a great feast given by his father the king , on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o ' clock in the afternoon , and all cooked and eaten that very evening .

But before going further , it is important to mention here , that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance , yet it is seldom done ; and when done , is still less frequently successful , on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as compared with the lance , which in effect become serious drawbacks . As a general thing , therefore , you must first get fast to a whale , before any pitchpoling comes into play .

' Twas not so hard a task . I thought to find one stubborn , at the least ; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels , and they revolve . Or , if you will , like so many ant - hills of powder , they all stand before me ; and I their match . Oh , hard ! that to fire others , the match itself must needs be wasting ! What I ' ve dared , I ' ve willed ; and what I ' ve willed , I ' ll do ! They think me mad -- Starbuck does ; but I ' m demoniac , I am madness maddened ! That wild madness that ' s only calm to comprehend itself ! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered ; and -- Aye ! I lost this leg . I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer . Now , then , be the prophet and the fulfiller one . That ' s more than ye , ye great gods , ever were . I laugh and hoot at ye , ye cricket - players , ye pugilists , ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes ! I will not say as schoolboys do to bullies -- Take some one of your own size ; don ' t pommel ME ! No , ye ' ve knocked me down , and I am up again ; but YE have run and hidden . Come forth from behind your cotton bags ! I have no long gun to reach ye . Come , Ahab ' s compliments to ye ; come and see if ye can swerve me . Swerve me ? ye cannot swerve me , else ye swerve yourselves ! man has ye there . Swerve me ? The path to my fixed purpose is laid with iron rails , whereon my soul is grooved to run . Over unsounded gorges , through the rifled hearts of mountains , under torrents ' beds , unerringly I rush ! Naught ' s an obstacle , naught ' s an angle to the iron way !

" No , no , no ; I wasn ' t aware of that ," said Elijah , slowly and wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg , with the most unaccountable glances .

Thus much being said , attend now , I pray you , to that marvellous and -- in this particular instance -- almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Whale ' s great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped .

" No , cook ; go on , go on ."

" Man overboard !" cried Daggoo , who amid the general consternation first came to his senses . " Swing the bucket this way !" and putting one foot into it , so as the better to secure his slippery hand - hold on the whip itself , the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head , almost before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom . Meantime , there was a terrible tumult . Looking over the side , they saw the before lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea , as if that moment seized with some momentous idea ; whereas it was only the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which he had sunk ." Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg -- that ' s who ye are speaking to , young man . It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted out for the voyage , and supplied with all her needs , including crew . We are part owners and agents . But as I was going to say , if thou wantest to know what whaling is , as thou tellest ye do , I can put ye in a way of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it , past backing out . Clap eye on Captain Ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he has only one leg ."

I will now refer you to Langsdorff ' s Voyages for a little circumstance in point , peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof . Langsdorff , you must know by the way , was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern ' s famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century . Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter :

Meantime , they hauled more and more upon their lines , till close flanking him on both sides , Stubb answered Flask with lance for lance ; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went , while the multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale ' s body , rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled , thirstily drinking at every new gash , as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains that poured from the smitten rock .

" God bless ye , and have ye in His holy keeping , men ," murmured old Bildad , almost incoherently . " I hope ye ' ll have fine weather now , so that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye -- a pleasant sun is all he needs , and ye ' ll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go . Be careful in the hunt , ye mates . Don ' t stave the boats needlessly , ye harpooneers ; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent . within the year . Don ' t forget your prayers , either . Mr . Starbuck , mind that cooper don ' t waste the spare staves . Oh ! the sail - needles are in the green locker ! Don ' t whale it too much a ' Lord ' s days , men ; but don ' t miss a fair chance either , that ' s rejecting Heaven ' s good gifts . Have an eye to the molasses tierce , Mr . Stubb ; it was a little leaky , I thought . If ye touch at the islands , Mr . Flask , beware of fornication . Good - bye , good - bye ! Don ' t keep that cheese too long down in the hold , Mr . Starbuck ; it ' ll spoil . Be careful with the butter -- twenty cents the pound it was , and mind ye , if --"

It was during the more pleasant weather , that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast - head came round .

" Cough be damned ! Pass along that return bucket ."

" Come hither to me -- hither , hither ," said Peleg , with a significance in his eye that almost startled me . " Look ye , lad ; never say that on board the Pequod . Never say it anywhere . Captain Ahab did not name himself . ' Twas a foolish , ignorant whim of his crazy , widowed mother , who died when he was only a twelvemonth old . And yet the old squaw Tistig , at Gayhead , said that the name would somehow prove prophetic . And , perhaps , other fools like her may tell thee the same . I wish to warn thee . It ' s a lie . I know Captain Ahab well ; I ' ve sailed with him as mate years ago ; I know what he is -- a good man -- not a pious , good man , like Bildad , but a swearing good man -- something like me -- only there ' s a good deal more of him . Aye , aye , I know that he was never very jolly ; and I know that on the passage home , he was a little out of his mind for a spell ; but it was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump that brought that about , as any one might see . I know , too , that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale , he ' s been a kind of moody -- desperate moody , and savage sometimes ; but that will all pass off . And once for all , let me tell thee and assure thee , young man , it ' s better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one . So good - bye to thee -- and wrong not Captain Ahab , because he happens to have a wicked name . Besides , my boy , he has a wife -- not three voyages wedded -- a sweet , resigned girl . Think of that ; by that sweet girl that old man has a child : hold ye then there can be any utter , hopeless harm in Ahab ? No , no , my lad ; stricken , blasted , if he be , Ahab has his humanities !"

Then , again , in 1825 , Bernard Germain , Count de Lacepede , a great naturalist , published a scientific systemized whale book , wherein are several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan . All these are not only incorrect , but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale ( that is to say , the Right whale ), even Scoresby , a long experienced man as touching that species , declares not to have its counterpart in nature .

CHAPTER 59

Look now at Stubb ; a man who from his humorous , deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies , was specially qualified to excel in pitchpoling . Look at him ; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the flying boat ; wrapt in fleecy foam , the towing whale is forty feet ahead . Handling the long lance lightly , glancing twice or thrice along its length to see if it be exactly straight , Stubb whistlingly gathers up the coil of the warp in one hand , so as to secure its free end in his grasp , leaving the rest unobstructed . Then holding the lance full before his waistband ' s middle , he levels it at the whale ; when , covering him with it , he steadily depresses the butt - end in his hand , thereby elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm , fifteen feet in the air . He minds you somewhat of a juggler , balancing a long staff on his chin . Next moment with a rapid , nameless impulse , in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming distance , and quivers in the life spot of the whale . Instead of sparkling water , he now spouts red blood .

" On one occasion I saw two of these monsters ( whales ) probably male and female , slowly swimming , one after the other , within less than a stone ' s throw of the shore " ( Terra Del Fuego ), " over which the beech tree extended its branches ." -- DARWIN ' S VOYAGE OF A NATURALIST .

Now having a night , a day , and still another night following before me in New Bedford , ere I could embark for my destined port , it became a matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile . It was a very dubious - looking , nay , a very dark and dismal night , bitingly cold and cheerless . I knew no one in the place . With anxious grapnels I had sounded my pocket , and only brought up a few pieces of silver ,-- So , wherever you go , Ishmael , said I to myself , as I stood in the middle of a dreary street shouldering my bag , and comparing the gloom towards the north with the darkness towards the south -- wherever in your wisdom you may conclude to lodge for the night , my dear Ishmael , be sure to inquire the price , and don ' t be too particular .

Walking the deck with quick , side - lunging strides , Ahab commanded the t ' gallant sails and royals to be set , and every stunsail spread . The best man in the ship must take the helm . Then , with every mast - head manned , the piled - up craft rolled down before the wind . The strange , upheaving , lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows of so many sails , made the buoyant , hovering deck to feel like air beneath the feet ; while still she rushed along , as if two antagonistic influences were struggling in her -- one to mount direct to heaven , the other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal . And had you watched Ahab ' s face that night , you would have thought that in him also two different things were warring . While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck , every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin - tap . On life and death this old man walked . But though the ship so swiftly sped , and though from every eye , like arrows , the eager glances shot , yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night . Every sailor swore he saw it once , but not a second time .

" We have been at great trouble , and peril , and some expense , and is all that to go to the Duke ' s benefit ; we getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters ?"

Be it said , however , that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species . Where one of that sort go down , twenty Right Whales do . This difference in the species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale ; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton ; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free . But there are instances where , after the lapse of many hours or several days , the sunken whale again rises , more buoyant than in life . But the reason of this is obvious . Gases are generated in him ; he swells to a prodigious magnitude ; becomes a sort of animal balloon . A line - of - battle ship could hardly keep him under then . In the Shore Whaling , on soundings , among the Bays of New Zealand , when a Right Whale gives token of sinking , they fasten buoys to him , with plenty of rope ; so that when the body has gone down , they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again .

I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas , something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale - ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there . It may be worth while , therefore , previously to advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman . It is time to set the world right in this matter , by proving such pictures of the whale all wrong .

CHAPTER 70

" May be ; may be . But it ' s made a wise man of me , Flask . D ' ye see Ahab standing there , sideways looking over the stern ? Well , the best thing you can do , Flask , is to let the old man alone ; never speak to him , whatever he says . Halloa ! What ' s that he shouts ? Hark !"

" Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks , the infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over ; he rears his enormous head , and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him ; he rushes at the boats with his head ; they are propelled before him with vast swiftness , and sometimes utterly destroyed . ... It is a matter of great astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so interesting , and , in a commercial point of view , so important an animal ( as the Sperm Whale ) should have been so entirely neglected , or should have excited so little curiosity among the numerous , and many of them competent observers , that of late years , must have possessed the most abundant and the most convenient opportunities of witnessing their habitudes ." -- THOMAS BEALE ' S HISTORY OF THE SPERM WHALE , 1839 .

But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on board , as she did the last day , with a long oil - ladle in one hand , and a still longer whaling lance in the other . Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward . As for Bildad , he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed , and at every fresh arrival , down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper . Every once in a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den , roaring at the men down the hatchways , roaring up to the riggers at the mast - head , and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam .

It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale ' s prodigious head hanging to the Pequod ' s side . But we must let it continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it . For the present other matters press , and the best we can do now for the head , is to pray heaven the tackles may hold .

" But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct , he kept his own counsel ( at least till all was over ) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles of his heart . He was in Radney the chief mate ' s watch ; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than half way to meet his doom , after the scene at the rigging , he insisted , against the express counsel of the captain , upon resuming the head of his watch at night . Upon this , and one or two other circumstances , Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge .

I considered the matter a moment , and then up stairs we went , and I was ushered into a small room , cold as a clam , and furnished , sure enough , with a prodigious bed , almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep abreast .

The hours wore on ;-- Ahab now shut up within his cabin ; anon , pacing the deck , with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect .

" No , sir ; not yet ," said Stubb , emboldened , " I will not tamely be called a dog , sir ."

CHAPTER 17

ALL . The squall ! the squall ! jump , my jollies ! ( THEY SCATTER .)

" Where - away ?"

Secondly : The ship Union , also of Nantucket , was in the year 1807 totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset , but the authentic particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter , though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it .

But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order , a pale man , with a bandaged head , arrested them -- Radney the chief mate . Ever since the blow , he had lain in his berth ; but that morning , hearing the tumult on the deck , he had crept out , and thus far had watched the whole scene . Such was the state of his mouth , that he could hardly speak ; but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the captain dared not attempt , he snatched the rope and advanced to his pinioned foe .

" Dost know nothing at all about whaling , I dare say -- eh ?

Ere long , from his first visit in the air , he withdrew into his cabin . But after that morning , he was every day visible to the crew ; either standing in his pivot - hole , or seated upon an ivory stool he had ; or heavily walking the deck . As the sky grew less gloomy ; indeed , began to grow a little genial , he became still less and less a recluse ; as if , when the ship had sailed from home , nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded . And , by and by , it came to pass , that he was almost continually in the air ; but , as yet , for all that he said , or perceptibly did , on the at last sunny deck , he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast . But the Pequod was only making a passage now ; not regularly cruising ; nearly all whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to , so that there was little or nothing , out of himself , to employ or excite Ahab , now ; and thus chase away , for that one interval , the clouds that layer upon layer were piled upon his brow , as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon .

" I think I remember some such story as you were telling ," said Flask , when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the ship , " but I can ' t remember where ."

" He wants you to take a glass of wine with him ," said the interpreter .

BOOK I . ( FOLIO ), CHAPTER I . ( SPERM WHALE ).-- This whale , among the English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale , and the Physeter whale , and the Anvil Headed whale , is the present Cachalot of the French , and the Pottsfich of the Germans , and the Macrocephalus of the Long Words . He is , without doubt , the largest inhabitant of the globe ; the most formidable of all whales to encounter ; the most majestic in aspect ; and lastly , by far the most valuable in commerce ; he being the only creature from which that valuable substance , spermaceti , is obtained . All his peculiarities will , in many other places , be enlarged upon . It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do . Philologically considered , it is absurd . Some centuries ago , when the Sperm whale was almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality , and when his oil was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish ; in those days spermaceti , it would seem , was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale . It was the idea also , that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses . In those times , also , spermaceti was exceedingly scarce , not being used for light , but only as an ointment and medicament . It was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb . When , as I opine , in the course of time , the true nature of spermaceti became known , its original name was still retained by the dealers ; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity . And so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti was really derived .

For some time past , though at intervals only , the unaccompanied , secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen . But not all of them knew of his existence ; only a few of them , comparatively , had knowingly seen him ; while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him , was small indeed . For , owing to the large number of whale - cruisers ; the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference , many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes , so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch , to encounter a single news - telling sail of any sort ; the inordinate length of each separate voyage ; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home ; all these , with other circumstances , direct and indirect , long obstructed the spread through the whole world - wide whaling - fleet of the special individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick . It was hardly to be doubted , that several vessels reported to have encountered , at such or such a time , or on such or such a meridian , a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity , which whale , after doing great mischief to his assailants , had completely escaped them ; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption , I say , that the whale in question must have been no other than Moby Dick . Yet as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not unfrequent instances of great ferocity , cunning , and malice in the monster attacked ; therefore it was , that those who by accident ignorantly gave battle to Moby Dick ; such hunters , perhaps , for the most part , were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred , more , as it were , to the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large , than to the individual cause . In that way , mostly , the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded .

" Queequeg no care what god made him shark ," said the savage , agonizingly lifting his hand up and down ; " wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god ; but de god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin ."

Wet , drenched through , and shivering cold , despairing of ship or boat , we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on . The mist still spread over the sea , the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat . Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet , hollowing his hand to his ear . We all heard a faint creaking , as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by the storm . The sound came nearer and nearer ; the thick mists were dimly parted by a huge , vague form . Affrighted , we all sprang into the sea as the ship at last loomed into view , bearing right down upon us within a distance of not much more than its length .

Even as it was , I thought something of slipping out of the window , but it was the second floor back . I am no coward , but what to make of this head - peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension . Ignorance is the parent of fear , and being completely nonplussed and confounded about the stranger , I confess I was now as much afraid of him as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of night . In fact , I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then to address him , and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed inexplicable in him .

" No ," said Peleg , " and he hasn ' t been baptized right either , or it would have washed some of that devil ' s blue off his face ."

" A mariner sat in the shrouds one night , The wind was piping free ; Now bright , now dimmed , was the moonlight pale , And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale , As it floundered in the sea ." -- ELIZABETH OAKES SMITH .

The Castaway .

" The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the water - works at London Bridge , and the water roaring in its passage through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood gushing from the whale ' s heart ." -- PALEY ' S THEOLOGY .

With memories like these in him , and , moreover , given to a certain superstitiousness , as has been said ; the courage of this Starbuck which could , nevertheless , still flourish , must indeed have been extreme . But it was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized , and with such terrible experiences and remembrances as he had ; it was not in nature that these things should fail in latently engendering an element in him , which , under suitable circumstances , would break out from its confinement , and burn all his courage up . And brave as he might be , it was that sort of bravery chiefly , visible in some intrepid men , which , while generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas , or winds , or whales , or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world , yet cannot withstand those more terrific , because more spiritual terrors , which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged and mighty man .

Ship and boat diverged ; the cold , damp night breeze blew between ; a screaming gull flew overhead ; the two hulls wildly rolled ; we gave three heavy - hearted cheers , and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic .

" Who ' s Old Thunder ?" said I , again riveted with the insane earnestness of his manner .

" Good night , landlord ," said I , " you may go ."

"' Will you be so good as to bring the priest also , Don ?'

" Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him ; One would think the deep to be hoary ." -- JOB .

CHAPTER 53

Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me , I had noticed that the seamen at the main and mizzen - mast - heads were already drowsy . So that at last all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars , and for every swing that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman . The waves , too , nodded their indolent crests ; and across the wide trance of the sea , east nodded to west , and the sun over all .

Next morning , Monday , after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber , for a block , I settled my own and comrade ' s bill ; using , however , my comrade ' s money . The grinning landlord , as well as the boarders , seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between me and Queequeg -- especially as Peter Coffin ' s cock and bull stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person whom I now companied with .

As he mounted the deck , Ahab abruptly accosted him , without at all heeding what he had in his hand ; but in his broken lingo , the German soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale ; immediately turning the conversation to his lamp - feeder and oil can , with some remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in profound darkness -- his last drop of Bremen oil being gone , and not a single flying - fish yet captured to supply the deficiency ; concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically called a CLEAN one ( that is , an empty one ), well deserving the name of Jungfrau or the Virgin .

The Prophet .

Every whale - ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships , whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed , depends upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans . Thus , most letters never reach their mark ; and many are only received after attaining an age of two or three years or more .

Though many of the whales , as has been said , were in violent motion , yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor retreated , but collectively remained in one place . As is customary in those cases , the boats at once separated , each making for some one lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal . In about three minutes ' time , Queequeg ' s harpoon was flung ; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces , and then running away with us like light , steered straight for the heart of the herd . Though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such circumstances , is in no wise unprecedented ; and indeed is almost always more or less anticipated ; yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery . For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal , you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a delirious throb .

Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo , a gigantic , coal - black negro - savage , with a lion - like tread -- an Ahasuerus to behold . Suspended from his ears were two golden hoops , so large that the sailors called them ring - bolts , and would talk of securing the top - sail halyards to them . In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler , lying in a lonely bay on his native coast . And never having been anywhere in the world but in Africa , Nantucket , and the pagan harbors most frequented by whalemen ; and having now led for many years the bold life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what manner of men they shipped ; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues , and erect as a giraffe , moved about the decks in all the pomp of six feet five in his socks . There was a corporeal humility in looking up at him ; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress . Curious to tell , this imperial negro , Ahasuerus Daggoo , was the Squire of little Flask , who looked like a chess - man beside him . As for the residue of the Pequod ' s company , be it said , that at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the mast employed in the American whale fishery , are Americans born , though pretty nearly all the officers are . Herein it is the same with the American whale fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies , and the engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and Railroads . The same , I say , because in all these cases the native American liberally provides the brains , the rest of the world as generously supplying the muscles . No small number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores , where the outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores . In like manner , the Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London , put in at the Shetland Islands , to receive the full complement of their crew . Upon the passage homewards , they drop them there again . How it is , there is no telling , but Islanders seem to make the best whalemen . They were nearly all Islanders in the Pequod , ISOLATOES too , I call such , not acknowledging the common continent of men , but each ISOLATO living on a separate continent of his own . Yet now , federated along one keel , what a set these Isolatoes were ! An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles of the sea , and all the ends of the earth , accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay the world ' s grievances before that bar from which not very many of them ever come back . Black Little Pip -- he never did -- oh , no ! he went before . Poor Alabama boy ! On the grim Pequod ' s forecastle , ye shall ere long see him , beating his tambourine ; prelusive of the eternal time , when sent for , to the great quarter - deck on high , he was bid strike in with angels , and beat his tambourine in glory ; called a coward here , hailed a hero there !

Coffin ?-- Spouter ?-- Rather ominous in that particular connexion , thought I . But it is a common name in Nantucket , they say , and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there . As the light looked so dim , and the place , for the time , looked quiet enough , and the dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt district , and as the swinging sign had a poverty - stricken sort of creak to it , I thought that here was the very spot for cheap lodgings , and the best of pea coffee .

Almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enormous mass dropped into the sea , like Niagara ' s Table - Rock into the whirlpool ; the suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it , to far down her glittering copper ; and all caught their breath , as half swinging -- now over the sailors ' heads , and now over the water -- Daggoo , through a thick mist of spray , was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles , while poor , buried - alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea ! But hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away , when a naked figure with a boarding - sword in his hand , was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks . The next , a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue . One packed rush was made to the side , and every eye counted every ripple , as moment followed moment , and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen . Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside , and pushed a little off from the ship .

" Do with it ? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home ;-- what else ?"

Sunset .

" Broke ," said I --" BROKE , do you mean ?"

" Woo - hoo ! Wa - hee !" screamed the Gay - Header in reply , raising some old war - whoop to the skies ; as every oarsman in the strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading stroke which the eager Indian gave .

" Aye , aye , I thought so . Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship ."

Folding back the counterpane , I stooped over the bed . Though none of the most elegant , it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well . I then glanced round the room ; and besides the bedstead and centre table , could see no other furniture belonging to the place , but a rude shelf , the four walls , and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale . Of things not properly belonging to the room , there was a hammock lashed up , and thrown upon the floor in one corner ; also a large seaman ' s bag , containing the harpooneer ' s wardrobe , no doubt in lieu of a land trunk . Likewise , there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf over the fire - place , and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed .

Heads or Tails .

Bethink yourself also of another thing . When two large , loaded Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks , what do the sailors do ? They do not suspend between them , at the point of coming contact , any merely hard substance , like iron or wood . No , they hold there a large , round wad of tow and cork , enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox - hide . That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow - bars . By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at . But supplementary to this , it has hypothetically occurred to me , that as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them , capable , at will , of distension or contraction ; and as the Sperm Whale , as far as I know , has no such provision in him ; considering , too , the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the surface , and anon swims with it high elevated out of the water ; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope ; considering the unique interior of his head ; it has hypothetically occurred to me , I say , that those mystical lung - celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with the outer air , so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and contraction . If this be so , fancy the irresistibleness of that might , to which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes .

" You said up there , didn ' t you ? and now look yourself , and see where your tongs are pointing . But , perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber ' s hole , cook ; but , no , no , cook , you don ' t get there , except you go the regular way , round by the rigging . It ' s a ticklish business , but must be done , or else it ' s no go . But none of us are in heaven yet . Drop your tongs , cook , and hear my orders . Do ye hear ? Hold your hat in one hand , and clap t ' other a ' top of your heart , when I ' m giving my orders , cook . What ! that your heart , there ?-- that ' s your gizzard ! Aloft ! aloft !-- that ' s it -- now you have it . Hold it there now , and pay attention ."

" On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie , Don ; but -- I crave your courtesy -- may be , you shall soon hear further of all that . Now , gentlemen , in square - sail brigs and three - masted ships , well - nigh as large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far Manilla ; this Lakeman , in the land - locked heart of our America , had yet been nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly connected with the open ocean . For in their interflowing aggregate , those grand fresh - water seas of ours ,-- Erie , and Ontario , and Huron , and Superior , and Michigan ,-- possess an ocean - like expansiveness , with many of the ocean ' s noblest traits ; with many of its rimmed varieties of races and of climes . They contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles , even as the Polynesian waters do ; in large part , are shored by two great contrasting nations , as the Atlantic is ; they furnish long maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East , dotted all round their banks ; here and there are frowned upon by batteries , and by the goat - like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw ; they have heard the fleet thunderings of naval victories ; at intervals , they yield their beaches to wild barbarians , whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams ; for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests , where the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies ; those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey , and silken creatures whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors ; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland , as well as Winnebago villages ; they float alike the full - rigged merchant ship , the armed cruiser of the State , the steamer , and the beech canoe ; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as direful as any that lash the salted wave ; they know what shipwrecks are , for out of sight of land , however inland , they have drowned full many a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew . Thus , gentlemen , though an inlander , Steelkilt was wild - ocean born , and wild - ocean nurtured ; as much of an audacious mariner as any . And for Radney , though in his infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach , to nurse at his maternal sea ; though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific ; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods seaman , fresh from the latitudes of buck - horn handled bowie - knives . Yet was this Nantucketer a man with some good - hearted traits ; and this Lakeman , a mariner , who though a sort of devil indeed , might yet by inflexible firmness , only tempered by that common decency of human recognition which is the meanest slave ' s right ; thus treated , this Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile . At all events , he had proved so thus far ; but Radney was doomed and made mad , and Steelkilt -- but , gentlemen , you shall hear .

Instantly the captain ran forward , and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the cutting - tackles , and at once cast loose the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship .

Another thing . Flask was the last person down at the dinner , and Flask is the first man up . Consider ! For hereby Flask ' s dinner was badly jammed in point of time . Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him ; and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear . If Stubb even , who is but a peg higher than Flask , happens to have but a small appetite , and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast , then Flask must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day ; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck . Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private , that ever since he had arisen to the dignity of an officer , from that moment he had never known what it was to be otherwise than hungry , more or less . For what he ate did not so much relieve his hunger , as keep it immortal in him . Peace and satisfaction , thought Flask , have for ever departed from my stomach . I am an officer ; but , how I wish I could fish a bit of old - fashioned beef in the forecastle , as I used to when I was before the mast . There ' s the fruits of promotion now ; there ' s the vanity of glory : there ' s the insanity of life ! Besides , if it were so that any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask ' s official capacity , all that sailor had to do , in order to obtain ample vengeance , was to go aft at dinner - time , and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky - light , sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab .

Thus the whale - line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils , twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction . All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions ; so that to the timid eye of the landsman , they seem as Indian jugglers , with the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs . Nor can any son of mortal woman , for the first time , seat himself amid those hempen intricacies , and while straining his utmost at the oar , bethink him that at any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted , and all these horrible contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings ; he cannot be thus circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones to quiver in him like a shaken jelly . Yet habit -- strange thing ! what cannot habit accomplish ?-- Gayer sallies , more merry mirth , better jokes , and brighter repartees , you never heard over your mahogany , than you will hear over the half - inch white cedar of the whale - boat , when thus hung in hangman ' s nooses ; and , like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward , the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death , with a halter around every neck , as you may say .

" Ah , my dear fellow , you can ' t fool us that way -- you can ' t fool us . It is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him ."

" WHALE . ... It is more immediately from the Dut . and Ger . WALLEN ; A . S . WALW - IAN , to roll , to wallow ." -- RICHARDSON ' S DICTIONARY

So fare thee well , poor devil of a Sub - Sub , whose commentator I am . Thou belongest to that hopeless , sallow tribe which no wine of this world will ever warm ; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy - strong ; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit , and feel poor - devilish , too ; and grow convivial upon tears ; and say to them bluntly , with full eyes and empty glasses , and in not altogether unpleasant sadness -- Give it up , Sub - Subs ! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world , by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless ! Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye ! But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal - mast with your hearts ; for your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven - storied heavens , and making refugees of long - pampered Gabriel , Michael , and Raphael , against your coming . Here ye strike but splintered hearts together -- there , ye shall strike unsplinterable glasses !

" Do you is all sharks , and by natur wery woracious , yet I zay to you , fellow - critters , dat dat woraciousness --' top dat dam slappin ' ob de tail ! How you tink to hear , spose you keep up such a dam slappin ' and bitin ' dare ?"

Now comes the Baling of the Case . But to comprehend it aright , you must know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated upon .

All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air . But it bade fair to outstrip them ; it flew on and on , as a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the hills .

The Specksynder .

" Mrs . Hussey ," said I , " he ' s ALIVE at all events ; so leave us , if you please , and I will see to this strange affair myself ."

PORTUGUESE SAILOR . How the sea rolls swashing ' gainst the side ! Stand by for reefing , hearties ! the winds are just crossing swords , pell - mell they ' ll go lunging presently .

But there was no time for shuddering , for now the savage went about something that completely fascinated my attention , and convinced me that he must indeed be a heathen . Going to his heavy grego , or wrapall , or dreadnaught , which he had previously hung on a chair , he fumbled in the pockets , and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch on its back , and exactly the colour of a three days ' old Congo baby . Remembering the embalmed head , at first I almost thought that this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner . But seeing that it was not at all limber , and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony , I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol , which indeed it proved to be . For now the savage goes up to the empty fire - place , and removing the papered fire - board , sets up this little hunch - backed image , like a tenpin , between the andirons . The chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty , so that I thought this fire - place made a very appropriate little shrine or chapel for his Congo idol .

"' What are you making there ?' said a shipmate .

Returning from my first morning stroll , I again sallied out upon this special errand . The sky had changed from clear , sunny cold , to driving sleet and mist . Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called bearskin , I fought my way against the stubborn storm . Entering , I found a small scattered congregation of sailors , and sailors ' wives and widows . A muffled silence reigned , only broken at times by the shrieks of the storm . Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from the other , as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable . The chaplain had not yet arrived ; and there these silent islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets , with black borders , masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit . Three of them ran something like the following , but I do not pretend to quote :--

Tashtego stood in the bows . He was full of the fire of the hunt . He hated Pip for a poltroon . Snatching the boat - knife from its sheath , he suspended its sharp edge over the line , and turning towards Stubb , exclaimed interrogatively , " Cut ?" Meantime Pip ' s blue , choked face plainly looked , Do , for God ' s sake ! All passed in a flash . In less than half a minute , this entire thing happened .

CHAPTER 60

" Who - e debel you ?" -- he at last said --" you no speak - e , dam - me , I kill - e ." And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the dark .

Stubb ' s exordium to his crew is given here at large , because he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general , and especially in inculcating the religion of rowing . But you must not suppose from this specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with his congregation . Not at all ; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity . He would say the most terrific things to his crew , in a tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury , and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a spice to the fun , that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without pulling for dear life , and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing . Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself , so loungingly managed his steering - oar , and so broadly gaped -- open - mouthed at times -- that the mere sight of such a yawning commander , by sheer force of contrast , acted like a charm upon the crew . Then again , Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists , whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous , as to put all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them .

TASHTEGO . ( QUIETLY SMOKING ) That ' s a white man ; he calls that fun : humph ! I save my sweat .

" With what ?" shouted I .

The Dart .

It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman , that a most significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod ' s crew ; an event most lamentable ; and which ended in providing the sometimes madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own .

But no more of this blubbering now , we are going a - whaling , and there is plenty of that yet to come . Let us scrape the ice from our frosted feet , and see what sort of a place this " Spouter " may be .

I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia ; expressing the idea very plainly , so that he could take it in . He said no ; only upon one memorable occasion . It was after a great feast given by his father the king , on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o ' clock in the afternoon , and all cooked and eaten that very evening .

But before going further , it is important to mention here , that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance , yet it is seldom done ; and when done , is still less frequently successful , on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as compared with the lance , which in effect become serious drawbacks . As a general thing , therefore , you must first get fast to a whale , before any pitchpoling comes into play .

' Twas not so hard a task . I thought to find one stubborn , at the least ; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels , and they revolve . Or , if you will , like so many ant - hills of powder , they all stand before me ; and I their match . Oh , hard ! that to fire others , the match itself must needs be wasting ! What I ' ve dared , I ' ve willed ; and what I ' ve willed , I ' ll do ! They think me mad -- Starbuck does ; but I ' m demoniac , I am madness maddened ! That wild madness that ' s only calm to comprehend itself ! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered ; and -- Aye ! I lost this leg . I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer . Now , then , be the prophet and the fulfiller one . That ' s more than ye , ye great gods , ever were . I laugh and hoot at ye , ye cricket - players , ye pugilists , ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes ! I will not say as schoolboys do to bullies -- Take some one of your own size ; don ' t pommel ME ! No , ye ' ve knocked me down , and I am up again ; but YE have run and hidden . Come forth from behind your cotton bags ! I have no long gun to reach ye . Come , Ahab ' s compliments to ye ; come and see if ye can swerve me . Swerve me ? ye cannot swerve me , else ye swerve yourselves ! man has ye there . Swerve me ? The path to my fixed purpose is laid with iron rails , whereon my soul is grooved to run . Over unsounded gorges , through the rifled hearts of mountains , under torrents ' beds , unerringly I rush ! Naught ' s an obstacle , naught ' s an angle to the iron way !

" No , no , no ; I wasn ' t aware of that ," said Elijah , slowly and wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg , with the most unaccountable glances .

Thus much being said , attend now , I pray you , to that marvellous and -- in this particular instance -- almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Whale ' s great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped .

" No , cook ; go on , go on ."

" Man overboard !" cried Daggoo , who amid the general consternation first came to his senses . " Swing the bucket this way !" and putting one foot into it , so as the better to secure his slippery hand - hold on the whip itself , the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head , almost before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom . Meantime , there was a terrible tumult . Looking over the side , they saw the before lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea , as if that moment seized with some momentous idea ; whereas it was only the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which he had sunk ." Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg -- that ' s who ye are speaking to , young man . It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted out for the voyage , and supplied with all her needs , including crew . We are part owners and agents . But as I was going to say , if thou wantest to know what whaling is , as thou tellest ye do , I can put ye in a way of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it , past backing out . Clap eye on Captain Ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he has only one leg ."

I will now refer you to Langsdorff ' s Voyages for a little circumstance in point , peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof . Langsdorff , you must know by the way , was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern ' s famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century . Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter :

Meantime , they hauled more and more upon their lines , till close flanking him on both sides , Stubb answered Flask with lance for lance ; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went , while the multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale ' s body , rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled , thirstily drinking at every new gash , as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains that poured from the smitten rock .

" God bless ye , and have ye in His holy keeping , men ," murmured old Bildad , almost incoherently . " I hope ye ' ll have fine weather now , so that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye -- a pleasant sun is all he needs , and ye ' ll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go . Be careful in the hunt , ye mates . Don ' t stave the boats needlessly , ye harpooneers ; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent . within the year . Don ' t forget your prayers , either . Mr . Starbuck , mind that cooper don ' t waste the spare staves . Oh ! the sail - needles are in the green locker ! Don ' t whale it too much a ' Lord ' s days , men ; but don ' t miss a fair chance either , that ' s rejecting Heaven ' s good gifts . Have an eye to the molasses tierce , Mr . Stubb ; it was a little leaky , I thought . If ye touch at the islands , Mr . Flask , beware of fornication . Good - bye , good - bye ! Don ' t keep that cheese too long down in the hold , Mr . Starbuck ; it ' ll spoil . Be careful with the butter -- twenty cents the pound it was , and mind ye , if --"

It was during the more pleasant weather , that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast - head came round .

" Cough be damned ! Pass along that return bucket ."

" Come hither to me -- hither , hither ," said Peleg , with a significance in his eye that almost startled me . " Look ye , lad ; never say that on board the Pequod . Never say it anywhere . Captain Ahab did not name himself . ' Twas a foolish , ignorant whim of his crazy , widowed mother , who died when he was only a twelvemonth old . And yet the old squaw Tistig , at Gayhead , said that the name would somehow prove prophetic . And , perhaps , other fools like her may tell thee the same . I wish to warn thee . It ' s a lie . I know Captain Ahab well ; I ' ve sailed with him as mate years ago ; I know what he is -- a good man -- not a pious , good man , like Bildad , but a swearing good man -- something like me -- only there ' s a good deal more of him . Aye , aye , I know that he was never very jolly ; and I know that on the passage home , he was a little out of his mind for a spell ; but it was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump that brought that about , as any one might see . I know , too , that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale , he ' s been a kind of moody -- desperate moody , and savage sometimes ; but that will all pass off . And once for all , let me tell thee and assure thee , young man , it ' s better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one . So good - bye to thee -- and wrong not Captain Ahab , because he happens to have a wicked name . Besides , my boy , he has a wife -- not three voyages wedded -- a sweet , resigned girl . Think of that ; by that sweet girl that old man has a child : hold ye then there can be any utter , hopeless harm in Ahab ? No , no , my lad ; stricken , blasted , if he be , Ahab has his humanities !"

Then , again , in 1825 , Bernard Germain , Count de Lacepede , a great naturalist , published a scientific systemized whale book , wherein are several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan . All these are not only incorrect , but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale ( that is to say , the Right whale ), even Scoresby , a long experienced man as touching that species , declares not to have its counterpart in nature .

CHAPTER 59

Look now at Stubb ; a man who from his humorous , deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies , was specially qualified to excel in pitchpoling . Look at him ; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the flying boat ; wrapt in fleecy foam , the towing whale is forty feet ahead . Handling the long lance lightly , glancing twice or thrice along its length to see if it be exactly straight , Stubb whistlingly gathers up the coil of the warp in one hand , so as to secure its free end in his grasp , leaving the rest unobstructed . Then holding the lance full before his waistband ' s middle , he levels it at the whale ; when , covering him with it , he steadily depresses the butt - end in his hand , thereby elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm , fifteen feet in the air . He minds you somewhat of a juggler , balancing a long staff on his chin . Next moment with a rapid , nameless impulse , in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming distance , and quivers in the life spot of the whale . Instead of sparkling water , he now spouts red blood .

" On one occasion I saw two of these monsters ( whales ) probably male and female , slowly swimming , one after the other , within less than a stone ' s throw of the shore " ( Terra Del Fuego ), " over which the beech tree extended its branches ." -- DARWIN ' S VOYAGE OF A NATURALIST .

Now having a night , a day , and still another night following before me in New Bedford , ere I could embark for my destined port , it became a matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile . It was a very dubious - looking , nay , a very dark and dismal night , bitingly cold and cheerless . I knew no one in the place . With anxious grapnels I had sounded my pocket , and only brought up a few pieces of silver ,-- So , wherever you go , Ishmael , said I to myself , as I stood in the middle of a dreary street shouldering my bag , and comparing the gloom towards the north with the darkness towards the south -- wherever in your wisdom you may conclude to lodge for the night , my dear Ishmael , be sure to inquire the price , and don ' t be too particular .

Walking the deck with quick , side - lunging strides , Ahab commanded the t ' gallant sails and royals to be set , and every stunsail spread . The best man in the ship must take the helm . Then , with every mast - head manned , the piled - up craft rolled down before the wind . The strange , upheaving , lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows of so many sails , made the buoyant , hovering deck to feel like air beneath the feet ; while still she rushed along , as if two antagonistic influences were struggling in her -- one to mount direct to heaven , the other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal . And had you watched Ahab ' s face that night , you would have thought that in him also two different things were warring . While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck , every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin - tap . On life and death this old man walked . But though the ship so swiftly sped , and though from every eye , like arrows , the eager glances shot , yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night . Every sailor swore he saw it once , but not a second time .

" We have been at great trouble , and peril , and some expense , and is all that to go to the Duke ' s benefit ; we getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters ?"

Be it said , however , that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species . Where one of that sort go down , twenty Right Whales do . This difference in the species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale ; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton ; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free . But there are instances where , after the lapse of many hours or several days , the sunken whale again rises , more buoyant than in life . But the reason of this is obvious . Gases are generated in him ; he swells to a prodigious magnitude ; becomes a sort of animal balloon . A line - of - battle ship could hardly keep him under then . In the Shore Whaling , on soundings , among the Bays of New Zealand , when a Right Whale gives token of sinking , they fasten buoys to him , with plenty of rope ; so that when the body has gone down , they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again .

I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas , something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale - ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there . It may be worth while , therefore , previously to advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman . It is time to set the world right in this matter , by proving such pictures of the whale all wrong .

CHAPTER 70

" May be ; may be . But it ' s made a wise man of me , Flask . D ' ye see Ahab standing there , sideways looking over the stern ? Well , the best thing you can do , Flask , is to let the old man alone ; never speak to him , whatever he says . Halloa ! What ' s that he shouts ? Hark !"

" Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks , the infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over ; he rears his enormous head , and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him ; he rushes at the boats with his head ; they are propelled before him with vast swiftness , and sometimes utterly destroyed . ... It is a matter of great astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so interesting , and , in a commercial point of view , so important an animal ( as the Sperm Whale ) should have been so entirely neglected , or should have excited so little curiosity among the numerous , and many of them competent observers , that of late years , must have possessed the most abundant and the most convenient opportunities of witnessing their habitudes ." -- THOMAS BEALE ' S HISTORY OF THE SPERM WHALE , 1839 .

But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on board , as she did the last day , with a long oil - ladle in one hand , and a still longer whaling lance in the other . Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward . As for Bildad , he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed , and at every fresh arrival , down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper . Every once in a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den , roaring at the men down the hatchways , roaring up to the riggers at the mast - head , and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam .

It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale ' s prodigious head hanging to the Pequod ' s side . But we must let it continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it . For the present other matters press , and the best we can do now for the head , is to pray heaven the tackles may hold .

" But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct , he kept his own counsel ( at least till all was over ) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles of his heart . He was in Radney the chief mate ' s watch ; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than half way to meet his doom , after the scene at the rigging , he insisted , against the express counsel of the captain , upon resuming the head of his watch at night . Upon this , and one or two other circumstances , Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge .

I considered the matter a moment , and then up stairs we went , and I was ushered into a small room , cold as a clam , and furnished , sure enough , with a prodigious bed , almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep abreast .

The hours wore on ;-- Ahab now shut up within his cabin ; anon , pacing the deck , with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect .

" No , sir ; not yet ," said Stubb , emboldened , " I will not tamely be called a dog , sir ."

CHAPTER 17

ALL . The squall ! the squall ! jump , my jollies ! ( THEY SCATTER .)

" Where - away ?"

Secondly : The ship Union , also of Nantucket , was in the year 1807 totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset , but the authentic particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter , though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it .

But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order , a pale man , with a bandaged head , arrested them -- Radney the chief mate . Ever since the blow , he had lain in his berth ; but that morning , hearing the tumult on the deck , he had crept out , and thus far had watched the whole scene . Such was the state of his mouth , that he could hardly speak ; but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the captain dared not attempt , he snatched the rope and advanced to his pinioned foe .

" Dost know nothing at all about whaling , I dare say -- eh ?

Ere long , from his first visit in the air , he withdrew into his cabin . But after that morning , he was every day visible to the crew ; either standing in his pivot - hole , or seated upon an ivory stool he had ; or heavily walking the deck . As the sky grew less gloomy ; indeed , began to grow a little genial , he became still less and less a recluse ; as if , when the ship had sailed from home , nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded . And , by and by , it came to pass , that he was almost continually in the air ; but , as yet , for all that he said , or perceptibly did , on the at last sunny deck , he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast . But the Pequod was only making a passage now ; not regularly cruising ; nearly all whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to , so that there was little or nothing , out of himself , to employ or excite Ahab , now ; and thus chase away , for that one interval , the clouds that layer upon layer were piled upon his brow , as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon .

" I think I remember some such story as you were telling ," said Flask , when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the ship , " but I can ' t remember where ."

" He wants you to take a glass of wine with him ," said the interpreter .

BOOK I . ( FOLIO ), CHAPTER I . ( SPERM WHALE ).-- This whale , among the English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale , and the Physeter whale , and the Anvil Headed whale , is the present Cachalot of the French , and the Pottsfich of the Germans , and the Macrocephalus of the Long Words . He is , without doubt , the largest inhabitant of the globe ; the most formidable of all whales to encounter ; the most majestic in aspect ; and lastly , by far the most valuable in commerce ; he being the only creature from which that valuable substance , spermaceti , is obtained . All his peculiarities will , in many other places , be enlarged upon . It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do . Philologically considered , it is absurd . Some centuries ago , when the Sperm whale was almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality , and when his oil was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish ; in those days spermaceti , it would seem , was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale . It was the idea also , that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses . In those times , also , spermaceti was exceedingly scarce , not being used for light , but only as an ointment and medicament . It was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb . When , as I opine , in the course of time , the true nature of spermaceti became known , its original name was still retained by the dealers ; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity . And so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti was really derived .

For some time past , though at intervals only , the unaccompanied , secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen . But not all of them knew of his existence ; only a few of them , comparatively , had knowingly seen him ; while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him , was small indeed . For , owing to the large number of whale - cruisers ; the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference , many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes , so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch , to encounter a single news - telling sail of any sort ; the inordinate length of each separate voyage ; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home ; all these , with other circumstances , direct and indirect , long obstructed the spread through the whole world - wide whaling - fleet of the special individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick . It was hardly to be doubted , that several vessels reported to have encountered , at such or such a time , or on such or such a meridian , a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity , which whale , after doing great mischief to his assailants , had completely escaped them ; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption , I say , that the whale in question must have been no other than Moby Dick . Yet as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not unfrequent instances of great ferocity , cunning , and malice in the monster attacked ; therefore it was , that those who by accident ignorantly gave battle to Moby Dick ; such hunters , perhaps , for the most part , were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred , more , as it were , to the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large , than to the individual cause . In that way , mostly , the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded .

" Queequeg no care what god made him shark ," said the savage , agonizingly lifting his hand up and down ; " wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god ; but de god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin ."

Wet , drenched through , and shivering cold , despairing of ship or boat , we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on . The mist still spread over the sea , the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat . Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet , hollowing his hand to his ear . We all heard a faint creaking , as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by the storm . The sound came nearer and nearer ; the thick mists were dimly parted by a huge , vague form . Affrighted , we all sprang into the sea as the ship at last loomed into view , bearing right down upon us within a distance of not much more than its length .

Even as it was , I thought something of slipping out of the window , but it was the second floor back . I am no coward , but what to make of this head - peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension . Ignorance is the parent of fear , and being completely nonplussed and confounded about the stranger , I confess I was now as much afraid of him as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of night . In fact , I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then to address him , and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed inexplicable in him .

" No ," said Peleg , " and he hasn ' t been baptized right either , or it would have washed some of that devil ' s blue off his face ."

" A mariner sat in the shrouds one night , The wind was piping free ; Now bright , now dimmed , was the moonlight pale , And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale , As it floundered in the sea ." -- ELIZABETH OAKES SMITH .

The Castaway .

" The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the water - works at London Bridge , and the water roaring in its passage through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood gushing from the whale ' s heart ." -- PALEY ' S THEOLOGY .

With memories like these in him , and , moreover , given to a certain superstitiousness , as has been said ; the courage of this Starbuck which could , nevertheless , still flourish , must indeed have been extreme . But it was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized , and with such terrible experiences and remembrances as he had ; it was not in nature that these things should fail in latently engendering an element in him , which , under suitable circumstances , would break out from its confinement , and burn all his courage up . And brave as he might be , it was that sort of bravery chiefly , visible in some intrepid men , which , while generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas , or winds , or whales , or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world , yet cannot withstand those more terrific , because more spiritual terrors , which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged and mighty man .

Ship and boat diverged ; the cold , damp night breeze blew between ; a screaming gull flew overhead ; the two hulls wildly rolled ; we gave three heavy - hearted cheers , and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic .

" Who ' s Old Thunder ?" said I , again riveted with the insane earnestness of his manner .

" Good night , landlord ," said I , " you may go ."

"' Will you be so good as to bring the priest also , Don ?'

" Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him ; One would think the deep to be hoary ." -- JOB .

CHAPTER 53

Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me , I had noticed that the seamen at the main and mizzen - mast - heads were already drowsy . So that at last all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars , and for every swing that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman . The waves , too , nodded their indolent crests ; and across the wide trance of the sea , east nodded to west , and the sun over all .

Next morning , Monday , after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber , for a block , I settled my own and comrade ' s bill ; using , however , my comrade ' s money . The grinning landlord , as well as the boarders , seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between me and Queequeg -- especially as Peter Coffin ' s cock and bull stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person whom I now companied with .

As he mounted the deck , Ahab abruptly accosted him , without at all heeding what he had in his hand ; but in his broken lingo , the German soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale ; immediately turning the conversation to his lamp - feeder and oil can , with some remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in profound darkness -- his last drop of Bremen oil being gone , and not a single flying - fish yet captured to supply the deficiency ; concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically called a CLEAN one ( that is , an empty one ), well deserving the name of Jungfrau or the Virgin .

The Prophet .

Every whale - ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships , whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed , depends upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans . Thus , most letters never reach their mark ; and many are only received after attaining an age of two or three years or more .

Though many of the whales , as has been said , were in violent motion , yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor retreated , but collectively remained in one place . As is customary in those cases , the boats at once separated , each making for some one lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal . In about three minutes ' time , Queequeg ' s harpoon was flung ; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces , and then running away with us like light , steered straight for the heart of the herd . Though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such circumstances , is in no wise unprecedented ; and indeed is almost always more or less anticipated ; yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery . For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal , you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a delirious throb .

Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo , a gigantic , coal - black negro - savage , with a lion - like tread -- an Ahasuerus to behold . Suspended from his ears were two golden hoops , so large that the sailors called them ring - bolts , and would talk of securing the top - sail halyards to them . In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler , lying in a lonely bay on his native coast . And never having been anywhere in the world but in Africa , Nantucket , and the pagan harbors most frequented by whalemen ; and having now led for many years the bold life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what manner of men they shipped ; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues , and erect as a giraffe , moved about the decks in all the pomp of six feet five in his socks . There was a corporeal humility in looking up at him ; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress . Curious to tell , this imperial negro , Ahasuerus Daggoo , was the Squire of little Flask , who looked like a chess - man beside him . As for the residue of the Pequod ' s company , be it said , that at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the mast employed in the American whale fishery , are Americans born , though pretty nearly all the officers are . Herein it is the same with the American whale fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies , and the engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and Railroads . The same , I say , because in all these cases the native American liberally provides the brains , the rest of the world as generously supplying the muscles . No small number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores , where the outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores . In like manner , the Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London , put in at the Shetland Islands , to receive the full complement of their crew . Upon the passage homewards , they drop them there again . How it is , there is no telling , but Islanders seem to make the best whalemen . They were nearly all Islanders in the Pequod , ISOLATOES too , I call such , not acknowledging the common continent of men , but each ISOLATO living on a separate continent of his own . Yet now , federated along one keel , what a set these Isolatoes were ! An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles of the sea , and all the ends of the earth , accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay the world ' s grievances before that bar from which not very many of them ever come back . Black Little Pip -- he never did -- oh , no ! he went before . Poor Alabama boy ! On the grim Pequod ' s forecastle , ye shall ere long see him , beating his tambourine ; prelusive of the eternal time , when sent for , to the great quarter - deck on high , he was bid strike in with angels , and beat his tambourine in glory ; called a coward here , hailed a hero there !

Coffin ?-- Spouter ?-- Rather ominous in that particular connexion , thought I . But it is a common name in Nantucket , they say , and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there . As the light looked so dim , and the place , for the time , looked quiet enough , and the dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt district , and as the swinging sign had a poverty - stricken sort of creak to it , I thought that here was the very spot for cheap lodgings , and the best of pea coffee .

Almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enormous mass dropped into the sea , like Niagara ' s Table - Rock into the whirlpool ; the suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it , to far down her glittering copper ; and all caught their breath , as half swinging -- now over the sailors ' heads , and now over the water -- Daggoo , through a thick mist of spray , was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles , while poor , buried - alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea ! But hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away , when a naked figure with a boarding - sword in his hand , was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks . The next , a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue . One packed rush was made to the side , and every eye counted every ripple , as moment followed moment , and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen . Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside , and pushed a little off from the ship .

" Do with it ? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home ;-- what else ?"

Sunset .

" Broke ," said I --" BROKE , do you mean ?"

" Woo - hoo ! Wa - hee !" screamed the Gay - Header in reply , raising some old war - whoop to the skies ; as every oarsman in the strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading stroke which the eager Indian gave .

" Aye , aye , I thought so . Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship ."

Folding back the counterpane , I stooped over the bed . Though none of the most elegant , it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well . I then glanced round the room ; and besides the bedstead and centre table , could see no other furniture belonging to the place , but a rude shelf , the four walls , and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale . Of things not properly belonging to the room , there was a hammock lashed up , and thrown upon the floor in one corner ; also a large seaman ' s bag , containing the harpooneer ' s wardrobe , no doubt in lieu of a land trunk . Likewise , there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf over the fire - place , and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed .

Heads or Tails .

Bethink yourself also of another thing . When two large , loaded Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks , what do the sailors do ? They do not suspend between them , at the point of coming contact , any merely hard substance , like iron or wood . No , they hold there a large , round wad of tow and cork , enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox - hide . That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow - bars . By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at . But supplementary to this , it has hypothetically occurred to me , that as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them , capable , at will , of distension or contraction ; and as the Sperm Whale , as far as I know , has no such provision in him ; considering , too , the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the surface , and anon swims with it high elevated out of the water ; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope ; considering the unique interior of his head ; it has hypothetically occurred to me , I say , that those mystical lung - celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with the outer air , so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and contraction . If this be so , fancy the irresistibleness of that might , to which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes .

" You said up there , didn ' t you ? and now look yourself , and see where your tongs are pointing . But , perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber ' s hole , cook ; but , no , no , cook , you don ' t get there , except you go the regular way , round by the rigging . It ' s a ticklish business , but must be done , or else it ' s no go . But none of us are in heaven yet . Drop your tongs , cook , and hear my orders . Do ye hear ? Hold your hat in one hand , and clap t ' other a ' top of your heart , when I ' m giving my orders , cook . What ! that your heart , there ?-- that ' s your gizzard ! Aloft ! aloft !-- that ' s it -- now you have it . Hold it there now , and pay attention ."

" On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie , Don ; but -- I crave your courtesy -- may be , you shall soon hear further of all that . Now , gentlemen , in square - sail brigs and three - masted ships , well - nigh as large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far Manilla ; this Lakeman , in the land - locked heart of our America , had yet been nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly connected with the open ocean . For in their interflowing aggregate , those grand fresh - water seas of ours ,-- Erie , and Ontario , and Huron , and Superior , and Michigan ,-- possess an ocean - like expansiveness , with many of the ocean ' s noblest traits ; with many of its rimmed varieties of races and of climes . They contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles , even as the Polynesian waters do ; in large part , are shored by two great contrasting nations , as the Atlantic is ; they furnish long maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East , dotted all round their banks ; here and there are frowned upon by batteries , and by the goat - like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw ; they have heard the fleet thunderings of naval victories ; at intervals , they yield their beaches to wild barbarians , whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams ; for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests , where the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies ; those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey , and silken creatures whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors ; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland , as well as Winnebago villages ; they float alike the full - rigged merchant ship , the armed cruiser of the State , the steamer , and the beech canoe ; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as direful as any that lash the salted wave ; they know what shipwrecks are , for out of sight of land , however inland , they have drowned full many a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew . Thus , gentlemen , though an inlander , Steelkilt was wild - ocean born , and wild - ocean nurtured ; as much of an audacious mariner as any . And for Radney , though in his infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach , to nurse at his maternal sea ; though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific ; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods seaman , fresh from the latitudes of buck - horn handled bowie - knives . Yet was this Nantucketer a man with some good - hearted traits ; and this Lakeman , a mariner , who though a sort of devil indeed , might yet by inflexible firmness , only tempered by that common decency of human recognition which is the meanest slave ' s right ; thus treated , this Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile . At all events , he had proved so thus far ; but Radney was doomed and made mad , and Steelkilt -- but , gentlemen , you shall hear .

Instantly the captain ran forward , and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the cutting - tackles , and at once cast loose the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship .

Another thing . Flask was the last person down at the dinner , and Flask is the first man up . Consider ! For hereby Flask ' s dinner was badly jammed in point of time . Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him ; and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear . If Stubb even , who is but a peg higher than Flask , happens to have but a small appetite , and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast , then Flask must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day ; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck . Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private , that ever since he had arisen to the dignity of an officer , from that moment he had never known what it was to be otherwise than hungry , more or less . For what he ate did not so much relieve his hunger , as keep it immortal in him . Peace and satisfaction , thought Flask , have for ever departed from my stomach . I am an officer ; but , how I wish I could fish a bit of old - fashioned beef in the forecastle , as I used to when I was before the mast . There ' s the fruits of promotion now ; there ' s the vanity of glory : there ' s the insanity of life ! Besides , if it were so that any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask ' s official capacity , all that sailor had to do , in order to obtain ample vengeance , was to go aft at dinner - time , and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky - light , sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab .

Thus the whale - line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils , twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction . All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions ; so that to the timid eye of the landsman , they seem as Indian jugglers , with the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs . Nor can any son of mortal woman , for the first time , seat himself amid those hempen intricacies , and while straining his utmost at the oar , bethink him that at any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted , and all these horrible contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings ; he cannot be thus circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones to quiver in him like a shaken jelly . Yet habit -- strange thing ! what cannot habit accomplish ?-- Gayer sallies , more merry mirth , better jokes , and brighter repartees , you never heard over your mahogany , than you will hear over the half - inch white cedar of the whale - boat , when thus hung in hangman ' s nooses ; and , like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward , the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death , with a halter around every neck , as you may say .

" Ah , my dear fellow , you can ' t fool us that way -- you can ' t fool us . It is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him ."

" WHALE . ... It is more immediately from the Dut . and Ger . WALLEN ; A . S . WALW - IAN , to roll , to wallow ." -- RICHARDSON ' S DICTIONARY

So fare thee well , poor devil of a Sub - Sub , whose commentator I am . Thou belongest to that hopeless , sallow tribe which no wine of this world will ever warm ; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy - strong ; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit , and feel poor - devilish , too ; and grow convivial upon tears ; and say to them bluntly , with full eyes and empty glasses , and in not altogether unpleasant sadness -- Give it up , Sub - Subs ! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world , by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless ! Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye ! But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal - mast with your hearts ; for your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven - storied heavens , and making refugees of long - pampered Gabriel , Michael , and Raphael , against your coming . Here ye strike but splintered hearts together -- there , ye shall strike unsplinterable glasses !

" Do you is all sharks , and by natur wery woracious , yet I zay to you , fellow - critters , dat dat woraciousness --' top dat dam slappin ' ob de tail ! How you tink to hear , spose you keep up such a dam slappin ' and bitin ' dare ?"

Now comes the Baling of the Case . But to comprehend it aright , you must know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated upon .

All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air . But it bade fair to outstrip them ; it flew on and on , as a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the hills .

The Specksynder .

" Mrs . Hussey ," said I , " he ' s ALIVE at all events ; so leave us , if you please , and I will see to this strange affair myself ."

PORTUGUESE SAILOR . How the sea rolls swashing ' gainst the side ! Stand by for reefing , hearties ! the winds are just crossing swords , pell - mell they ' ll go lunging presently .

But there was no time for shuddering , for now the savage went about something that completely fascinated my attention , and convinced me that he must indeed be a heathen . Going to his heavy grego , or wrapall , or dreadnaught , which he had previously hung on a chair , he fumbled in the pockets , and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch on its back , and exactly the colour of a three days ' old Congo baby . Remembering the embalmed head , at first I almost thought that this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner . But seeing that it was not at all limber , and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony , I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol , which indeed it proved to be . For now the savage goes up to the empty fire - place , and removing the papered fire - board , sets up this little hunch - backed image , like a tenpin , between the andirons . The chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty , so that I thought this fire - place made a very appropriate little shrine or chapel for his Congo idol .

"' What are you making there ?' said a shipmate .

Returning from my first morning stroll , I again sallied out upon this special errand . The sky had changed from clear , sunny cold , to driving sleet and mist . Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called bearskin , I fought my way against the stubborn storm . Entering , I found a small scattered congregation of sailors , and sailors ' wives and widows . A muffled silence reigned , only broken at times by the shrieks of the storm . Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from the other , as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable . The chaplain had not yet arrived ; and there these silent islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets , with black borders , masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit . Three of them ran something like the following , but I do not pretend to quote :--

Tashtego stood in the bows . He was full of the fire of the hunt . He hated Pip for a poltroon . Snatching the boat - knife from its sheath , he suspended its sharp edge over the line , and turning towards Stubb , exclaimed interrogatively , " Cut ?" Meantime Pip ' s blue , choked face plainly looked , Do , for God ' s sake ! All passed in a flash . In less than half a minute , this entire thing happened .

CHAPTER 60

" Who - e debel you ?" -- he at last said --" you no speak - e , dam - me , I kill - e ." And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the dark .

Stubb ' s exordium to his crew is given here at large , because he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general , and especially in inculcating the religion of rowing . But you must not suppose from this specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with his congregation . Not at all ; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity . He would say the most terrific things to his crew , in a tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury , and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a spice to the fun , that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without pulling for dear life , and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing . Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself , so loungingly managed his steering - oar , and so broadly gaped -- open - mouthed at times -- that the mere sight of such a yawning commander , by sheer force of contrast , acted like a charm upon the crew . Then again , Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists , whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous , as to put all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them .

TASHTEGO . ( QUIETLY SMOKING ) That ' s a white man ; he calls that fun : humph ! I save my sweat .

" With what ?" shouted I .

The Dart .

It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman , that a most significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod ' s crew ; an event most lamentable ; and which ended in providing the sometimes madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own .

But no more of this blubbering now , we are going a - whaling , and there is plenty of that yet to come . Let us scrape the ice from our frosted feet , and see what sort of a place this " Spouter " may be .

I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia ; expressing the idea very plainly , so that he could take it in . He said no ; only upon one memorable occasion . It was after a great feast given by his father the king , on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o ' clock in the afternoon , and all cooked and eaten that very evening .

But before going further , it is important to mention here , that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance , yet it is seldom done ; and when done , is still less frequently successful , on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as compared with the lance , which in effect become serious drawbacks . As a general thing , therefore , you must first get fast to a whale , before any pitchpoling comes into play .

' Twas not so hard a task . I thought to find one stubborn , at the least ; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels , and they revolve . Or , if you will , like so many ant - hills of powder , they all stand before me ; and I their match . Oh , hard ! that to fire others , the match itself must needs be wasting ! What I ' ve dared , I ' ve willed ; and what I ' ve willed , I ' ll do ! They think me mad -- Starbuck does ; but I ' m demoniac , I am madness maddened ! That wild madness that ' s only calm to comprehend itself ! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered ; and -- Aye ! I lost this leg . I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer . Now , then , be the prophet and the fulfiller one . That ' s more than ye , ye great gods , ever were . I laugh and hoot at ye , ye cricket - players , ye pugilists , ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes ! I will not say as schoolboys do to bullies -- Take some one of your own size ; don ' t pommel ME ! No , ye ' ve knocked me down , and I am up again ; but YE have run and hidden . Come forth from behind your cotton bags ! I have no long gun to reach ye . Come , Ahab ' s compliments to ye ; come and see if ye can swerve me . Swerve me ? ye cannot swerve me , else ye swerve yourselves ! man has ye there . Swerve me ? The path to my fixed purpose is laid with iron rails , whereon my soul is grooved to run . Over unsounded gorges , through the rifled hearts of mountains , under torrents ' beds , unerringly I rush ! Naught ' s an obstacle , naught ' s an angle to the iron way !

" No , no , no ; I wasn ' t aware of that ," said Elijah , slowly and wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg , with the most unaccountable glances .

Thus much being said , attend now , I pray you , to that marvellous and -- in this particular instance -- almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Whale ' s great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped .

" No , cook ; go on , go on ."

" Man overboard !" cried Daggoo , who amid the general consternation first came to his senses . " Swing the bucket this way !" and putting one foot into it , so as the better to secure his slippery hand - hold on the whip itself , the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head , almost before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom . Meantime , there was a terrible tumult . Looking over the side , they saw the before lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea , as if that moment seized with some momentous idea ; whereas it was only the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which he had sunk ." Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg -- that ' s who ye are speaking to , young man . It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted out for the voyage , and supplied with all her needs , including crew . We are part owners and agents . But as I was going to say , if thou wantest to know what whaling is , as thou tellest ye do , I can put ye in a way of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it , past backing out . Clap eye on Captain Ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he has only one leg ."

I will now refer you to Langsdorff ' s Voyages for a little circumstance in point , peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof . Langsdorff , you must know by the way , was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern ' s famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century . Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter :

Meantime , they hauled more and more upon their lines , till close flanking him on both sides , Stubb answered Flask with lance for lance ; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went , while the multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale ' s body , rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled , thirstily drinking at every new gash , as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains that poured from the smitten rock .

" God bless ye , and have ye in His holy keeping , men ," murmured old Bildad , almost incoherently . " I hope ye ' ll have fine weather now , so that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye -- a pleasant sun is all he needs , and ye ' ll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go . Be careful in the hunt , ye mates . Don ' t stave the boats needlessly , ye harpooneers ; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent . within the year . Don ' t forget your prayers , either . Mr . Starbuck , mind that cooper don ' t waste the spare staves . Oh ! the sail - needles are in the green locker ! Don ' t whale it too much a ' Lord ' s days , men ; but don ' t miss a fair chance either , that ' s rejecting Heaven ' s good gifts . Have an eye to the molasses tierce , Mr . Stubb ; it was a little leaky , I thought . If ye touch at the islands , Mr . Flask , beware of fornication . Good - bye , good - bye ! Don ' t keep that cheese too long down in the hold , Mr . Starbuck ; it ' ll spoil . Be careful with the butter -- twenty cents the pound it was , and mind ye , if --"

It was during the more pleasant weather , that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast - head came round .

" Cough be damned ! Pass along that return bucket ."

" Come hither to me -- hither , hither ," said Peleg , with a significance in his eye that almost startled me . " Look ye , lad ; never say that on board the Pequod . Never say it anywhere . Captain Ahab did not name himself . ' Twas a foolish , ignorant whim of his crazy , widowed mother , who died when he was only a twelvemonth old . And yet the old squaw Tistig , at Gayhead , said that the name would somehow prove prophetic . And , perhaps , other fools like her may tell thee the same . I wish to warn thee . It ' s a lie . I know Captain Ahab well ; I ' ve sailed with him as mate years ago ; I know what he is -- a good man -- not a pious , good man , like Bildad , but a swearing good man -- something like me -- only there ' s a good deal more of him . Aye , aye , I know that he was never very jolly ; and I know that on the passage home , he was a little out of his mind for a spell ; but it was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump that brought that about , as any one might see . I know , too , that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale , he ' s been a kind of moody -- desperate moody , and savage sometimes ; but that will all pass off . And once for all , let me tell thee and assure thee , young man , it ' s better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one . So good - bye to thee -- and wrong not Captain Ahab , because he happens to have a wicked name . Besides , my boy , he has a wife -- not three voyages wedded -- a sweet , resigned girl . Think of that ; by that sweet girl that old man has a child : hold ye then there can be any utter , hopeless harm in Ahab ? No , no , my lad ; stricken , blasted , if he be , Ahab has his humanities !"

Then , again , in 1825 , Bernard Germain , Count de Lacepede , a great naturalist , published a scientific systemized whale book , wherein are several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan . All these are not only incorrect , but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale ( that is to say , the Right whale ), even Scoresby , a long experienced man as touching that species , declares not to have its counterpart in nature .

CHAPTER 59

Look now at Stubb ; a man who from his humorous , deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies , was specially qualified to excel in pitchpoling . Look at him ; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the flying boat ; wrapt in fleecy foam , the towing whale is forty feet ahead . Handling the long lance lightly , glancing twice or thrice along its length to see if it be exactly straight , Stubb whistlingly gathers up the coil of the warp in one hand , so as to secure its free end in his grasp , leaving the rest unobstructed . Then holding the lance full before his waistband ' s middle , he levels it at the whale ; when , covering him with it , he steadily depresses the butt - end in his hand , thereby elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm , fifteen feet in the air . He minds you somewhat of a juggler , balancing a long staff on his chin . Next moment with a rapid , nameless impulse , in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming distance , and quivers in the life spot of the whale . Instead of sparkling water , he now spouts red blood .

" On one occasion I saw two of these monsters ( whales ) probably male and female , slowly swimming , one after the other , within less than a stone ' s throw of the shore " ( Terra Del Fuego ), " over which the beech tree extended its branches ." -- DARWIN ' S VOYAGE OF A NATURALIST .

Now having a night , a day , and still another night following before me in New Bedford , ere I could embark for my destined port , it became a matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile . It was a very dubious - looking , nay , a very dark and dismal night , bitingly cold and cheerless . I knew no one in the place . With anxious grapnels I had sounded my pocket , and only brought up a few pieces of silver ,-- So , wherever you go , Ishmael , said I to myself , as I stood in the middle of a dreary street shouldering my bag , and comparing the gloom towards the north with the darkness towards the south -- wherever in your wisdom you may conclude to lodge for the night , my dear Ishmael , be sure to inquire the price , and don ' t be too particular .

Walking the deck with quick , side - lunging strides , Ahab commanded the t ' gallant sails and royals to be set , and every stunsail spread . The best man in the ship must take the helm . Then , with every mast - head manned , the piled - up craft rolled down before the wind . The strange , upheaving , lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows of so many sails , made the buoyant , hovering deck to feel like air beneath the feet ; while still she rushed along , as if two antagonistic influences were struggling in her -- one to mount direct to heaven , the other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal . And had you watched Ahab ' s face that night , you would have thought that in him also two different things were warring . While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck , every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin - tap . On life and death this old man walked . But though the ship so swiftly sped , and though from every eye , like arrows , the eager glances shot , yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night . Every sailor swore he saw it once , but not a second time .

" We have been at great trouble , and peril , and some expense , and is all that to go to the Duke ' s benefit ; we getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters ?"

Be it said , however , that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species . Where one of that sort go down , twenty Right Whales do . This difference in the species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale ; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton ; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free . But there are instances where , after the lapse of many hours or several days , the sunken whale again rises , more buoyant than in life . But the reason of this is obvious . Gases are generated in him ; he swells to a prodigious magnitude ; becomes a sort of animal balloon . A line - of - battle ship could hardly keep him under then . In the Shore Whaling , on soundings , among the Bays of New Zealand , when a Right Whale gives token of sinking , they fasten buoys to him , with plenty of rope ; so that when the body has gone down , they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again .

I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas , something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale - ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there . It may be worth while , therefore , previously to advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman . It is time to set the world right in this matter , by proving such pictures of the whale all wrong .

CHAPTER 70

" May be ; may be . But it ' s made a wise man of me , Flask . D ' ye see Ahab standing there , sideways looking over the stern ? Well , the best thing you can do , Flask , is to let the old man alone ; never speak to him , whatever he says . Halloa ! What ' s that he shouts ? Hark !"

" Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks , the infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over ; he rears his enormous head , and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him ; he rushes at the boats with his head ; they are propelled before him with vast swiftness , and sometimes utterly destroyed . ... It is a matter of great astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so interesting , and , in a commercial point of view , so important an animal ( as the Sperm Whale ) should have been so entirely neglected , or should have excited so little curiosity among the numerous , and many of them competent observers , that of late years , must have possessed the most abundant and the most convenient opportunities of witnessing their habitudes ." -- THOMAS BEALE ' S HISTORY OF THE SPERM WHALE , 1839 .

But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on board , as she did the last day , with a long oil - ladle in one hand , and a still longer whaling lance in the other . Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward . As for Bildad , he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed , and at every fresh arrival , down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper . Every once in a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den , roaring at the men down the hatchways , roaring up to the riggers at the mast - head , and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam .

It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale ' s prodigious head hanging to the Pequod ' s side . But we must let it continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it . For the present other matters press , and the best we can do now for the head , is to pray heaven the tackles may hold .

" But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct , he kept his own counsel ( at least till all was over ) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles of his heart . He was in Radney the chief mate ' s watch ; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than half way to meet his doom , after the scene at the rigging , he insisted , against the express counsel of the captain , upon resuming the head of his watch at night . Upon this , and one or two other circumstances , Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge .

I considered the matter a moment , and then up stairs we went , and I was ushered into a small room , cold as a clam , and furnished , sure enough , with a prodigious bed , almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep abreast .

The hours wore on ;-- Ahab now shut up within his cabin ; anon , pacing the deck , with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect .

" No , sir ; not yet ," said Stubb , emboldened , " I will not tamely be called a dog , sir ."

CHAPTER 17

ALL . The squall ! the squall ! jump , my jollies ! ( THEY SCATTER .)

" Where - away ?"

Secondly : The ship Union , also of Nantucket , was in the year 1807 totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset , but the authentic particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter , though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it .

But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order , a pale man , with a bandaged head , arrested them -- Radney the chief mate . Ever since the blow , he had lain in his berth ; but that morning , hearing the tumult on the deck , he had crept out , and thus far had watched the whole scene . Such was the state of his mouth , that he could hardly speak ; but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the captain dared not attempt , he snatched the rope and advanced to his pinioned foe .

" Dost know nothing at all about whaling , I dare say -- eh ?

Ere long , from his first visit in the air , he withdrew into his cabin . But after that morning , he was every day visible to the crew ; either standing in his pivot - hole , or seated upon an ivory stool he had ; or heavily walking the deck . As the sky grew less gloomy ; indeed , began to grow a little genial , he became still less and less a recluse ; as if , when the ship had sailed from home , nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded . And , by and by , it came to pass , that he was almost continually in the air ; but , as yet , for all that he said , or perceptibly did , on the at last sunny deck , he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast . But the Pequod was only making a passage now ; not regularly cruising ; nearly all whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to , so that there was little or nothing , out of himself , to employ or excite Ahab , now ; and thus chase away , for that one interval , the clouds that layer upon layer were piled upon his brow , as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon .

" I think I remember some such story as you were telling ," said Flask , when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the ship , " but I can ' t remember where ."

" He wants you to take a glass of wine with him ," said the interpreter .

BOOK I . ( FOLIO ), CHAPTER I . ( SPERM WHALE ).-- This whale , among the English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale , and the Physeter whale , and the Anvil Headed whale , is the present Cachalot of the French , and the Pottsfich of the Germans , and the Macrocephalus of the Long Words . He is , without doubt , the largest inhabitant of the globe ; the most formidable of all whales to encounter ; the most majestic in aspect ; and lastly , by far the most valuable in commerce ; he being the only creature from which that valuable substance , spermaceti , is obtained . All his peculiarities will , in many other places , be enlarged upon . It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do . Philologically considered , it is absurd . Some centuries ago , when the Sperm whale was almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality , and when his oil was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish ; in those days spermaceti , it would seem , was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale . It was the idea also , that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses . In those times , also , spermaceti was exceedingly scarce , not being used for light , but only as an ointment and medicament . It was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb . When , as I opine , in the course of time , the true nature of spermaceti became known , its original name was still retained by the dealers ; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity . And so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti was really derived .

For some time past , though at intervals only , the unaccompanied , secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen . But not all of them knew of his existence ; only a few of them , comparatively , had knowingly seen him ; while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him , was small indeed . For , owing to the large number of whale - cruisers ; the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference , many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes , so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch , to encounter a single news - telling sail of any sort ; the inordinate length of each separate voyage ; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home ; all these , with other circumstances , direct and indirect , long obstructed the spread through the whole world - wide whaling - fleet of the special individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick . It was hardly to be doubted , that several vessels reported to have encountered , at such or such a time , or on such or such a meridian , a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity , which whale , after doing great mischief to his assailants , had completely escaped them ; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption , I say , that the whale in question must have been no other than Moby Dick . Yet as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not unfrequent instances of great ferocity , cunning , and malice in the monster attacked ; therefore it was , that those who by accident ignorantly gave battle to Moby Dick ; such hunters , perhaps , for the most part , were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred , more , as it were , to the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large , than to the individual cause . In that way , mostly , the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded .

" Queequeg no care what god made him shark ," said the savage , agonizingly lifting his hand up and down ; " wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god ; but de god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin ."

Wet , drenched through , and shivering cold , despairing of ship or boat , we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on . The mist still spread over the sea , the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat . Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet , hollowing his hand to his ear . We all heard a faint creaking , as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by the storm . The sound came nearer and nearer ; the thick mists were dimly parted by a huge , vague form . Affrighted , we all sprang into the sea as the ship at last loomed into view , bearing right down upon us within a distance of not much more than its length .

Even as it was , I thought something of slipping out of the window , but it was the second floor back . I am no coward , but what to make of this head - peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension . Ignorance is the parent of fear , and being completely nonplussed and confounded about the stranger , I confess I was now as much afraid of him as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of night . In fact , I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then to address him , and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed inexplicable in him .

" No ," said Peleg , " and he hasn ' t been baptized right either , or it would have washed some of that devil ' s blue off his face ."

" A mariner sat in the shrouds one night , The wind was piping free ; Now bright , now dimmed , was the moonlight pale , And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale , As it floundered in the sea ." -- ELIZABETH OAKES SMITH .

The Castaway .

" The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the water - works at London Bridge , and the water roaring in its passage through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood gushing from the whale ' s heart ." -- PALEY ' S THEOLOGY .

With memories like these in him , and , moreover , given to a certain superstitiousness , as has been said ; the courage of this Starbuck which could , nevertheless , still flourish , must indeed have been extreme . But it was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized , and with such terrible experiences and remembrances as he had ; it was not in nature that these things should fail in latently engendering an element in him , which , under suitable circumstances , would break out from its confinement , and burn all his courage up . And brave as he might be , it was that sort of bravery chiefly , visible in some intrepid men , which , while generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas , or winds , or whales , or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world , yet cannot withstand those more terrific , because more spiritual terrors , which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged and mighty man .

Ship and boat diverged ; the cold , damp night breeze blew between ; a screaming gull flew overhead ; the two hulls wildly rolled ; we gave three heavy - hearted cheers , and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic .

" Who ' s Old Thunder ?" said I , again riveted with the insane earnestness of his manner .

" Good night , landlord ," said I , " you may go ."

"' Will you be so good as to bring the priest also , Don ?'

" Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him ; One would think the deep to be hoary ." -- JOB .

CHAPTER 53

Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me , I had noticed that the seamen at the main and mizzen - mast - heads were already drowsy . So that at last all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars , and for every swing that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman . The waves , too , nodded their indolent crests ; and across the wide trance of the sea , east nodded to west , and the sun over all .

Next morning , Monday , after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber , for a block , I settled my own and comrade ' s bill ; using , however , my comrade ' s money . The grinning landlord , as well as the boarders , seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between me and Queequeg -- especially as Peter Coffin ' s cock and bull stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person whom I now companied with .

As he mounted the deck , Ahab abruptly accosted him , without at all heeding what he had in his hand ; but in his broken lingo , the German soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale ; immediately turning the conversation to his lamp - feeder and oil can , with some remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in profound darkness -- his last drop of Bremen oil being gone , and not a single flying - fish yet captured to supply the deficiency ; concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically called a CLEAN one ( that is , an empty one ), well deserving the name of Jungfrau or the Virgin .

The Prophet .

Every whale - ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships , whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed , depends upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans . Thus , most letters never reach their mark ; and many are only received after attaining an age of two or three years or more .

Though many of the whales , as has been said , were in violent motion , yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor retreated , but collectively remained in one place . As is customary in those cases , the boats at once separated , each making for some one lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal . In about three minutes ' time , Queequeg ' s harpoon was flung ; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces , and then running away with us like light , steered straight for the heart of the herd . Though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such circumstances , is in no wise unprecedented ; and indeed is almost always more or less anticipated ; yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery . For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal , you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a delirious throb .

Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo , a gigantic , coal - black negro - savage , with a lion - like tread -- an Ahasuerus to behold . Suspended from his ears were two golden hoops , so large that the sailors called them ring - bolts , and would talk of securing the top - sail halyards to them . In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler , lying in a lonely bay on his native coast . And never having been anywhere in the world but in Africa , Nantucket , and the pagan harbors most frequented by whalemen ; and having now led for many years the bold life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what manner of men they shipped ; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues , and erect as a giraffe , moved about the decks in all the pomp of six feet five in his socks . There was a corporeal humility in looking up at him ; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress . Curious to tell , this imperial negro , Ahasuerus Daggoo , was the Squire of little Flask , who looked like a chess - man beside him . As for the residue of the Pequod ' s company , be it said , that at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the mast employed in the American whale fishery , are Americans born , though pretty nearly all the officers are . Herein it is the same with the American whale fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies , and the engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and Railroads . The same , I say , because in all these cases the native American liberally provides the brains , the rest of the world as generously supplying the muscles . No small number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores , where the outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores . In like manner , the Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London , put in at the Shetland Islands , to receive the full complement of their crew . Upon the passage homewards , they drop them there again . How it is , there is no telling , but Islanders seem to make the best whalemen . They were nearly all Islanders in the Pequod , ISOLATOES too , I call such , not acknowledging the common continent of men , but each ISOLATO living on a separate continent of his own . Yet now , federated along one keel , what a set these Isolatoes were ! An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles of the sea , and all the ends of the earth , accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay the world ' s grievances before that bar from which not very many of them ever come back . Black Little Pip -- he never did -- oh , no ! he went before . Poor Alabama boy ! On the grim Pequod ' s forecastle , ye shall ere long see him , beating his tambourine ; prelusive of the eternal time , when sent for , to the great quarter - deck on high , he was bid strike in with angels , and beat his tambourine in glory ; called a coward here , hailed a hero there !

Coffin ?-- Spouter ?-- Rather ominous in that particular connexion , thought I . But it is a common name in Nantucket , they say , and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there . As the light looked so dim , and the place , for the time , looked quiet enough , and the dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt district , and as the swinging sign had a poverty - stricken sort of creak to it , I thought that here was the very spot for cheap lodgings , and the best of pea coffee .

Almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enormous mass dropped into the sea , like Niagara ' s Table - Rock into the whirlpool ; the suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it , to far down her glittering copper ; and all caught their breath , as half swinging -- now over the sailors ' heads , and now over the water -- Daggoo , through a thick mist of spray , was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles , while poor , buried - alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea ! But hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away , when a naked figure with a boarding - sword in his hand , was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks . The next , a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue . One packed rush was made to the side , and every eye counted every ripple , as moment followed moment , and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen . Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside , and pushed a little off from the ship .

" Do with it ? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home ;-- what else ?"

Sunset .

" Broke ," said I --" BROKE , do you mean ?"

" Woo - hoo ! Wa - hee !" screamed the Gay - Header in reply , raising some old war - whoop to the skies ; as every oarsman in the strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading stroke which the eager Indian gave .

" Aye , aye , I thought so . Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship ."

Folding back the counterpane , I stooped over the bed . Though none of the most elegant , it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well . I then glanced round the room ; and besides the bedstead and centre table , could see no other furniture belonging to the place , but a rude shelf , the four walls , and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale . Of things not properly belonging to the room , there was a hammock lashed up , and thrown upon the floor in one corner ; also a large seaman ' s bag , containing the harpooneer ' s wardrobe , no doubt in lieu of a land trunk . Likewise , there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf over the fire - place , and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed .

Heads or Tails .

Bethink yourself also of another thing . When two large , loaded Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks , what do the sailors do ? They do not suspend between them , at the point of coming contact , any merely hard substance , like iron or wood . No , they hold there a large , round wad of tow and cork , enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox - hide . That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow - bars . By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at . But supplementary to this , it has hypothetically occurred to me , that as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them , capable , at will , of distension or contraction ; and as the Sperm Whale , as far as I know , has no such provision in him ; considering , too , the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the surface , and anon swims with it high elevated out of the water ; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope ; considering the unique interior of his head ; it has hypothetically occurred to me , I say , that those mystical lung - celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with the outer air , so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and contraction . If this be so , fancy the irresistibleness of that might , to which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes .

" You said up there , didn ' t you ? and now look yourself , and see where your tongs are pointing . But , perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber ' s hole , cook ; but , no , no , cook , you don ' t get there , except you go the regular way , round by the rigging . It ' s a ticklish business , but must be done , or else it ' s no go . But none of us are in heaven yet . Drop your tongs , cook , and hear my orders . Do ye hear ? Hold your hat in one hand , and clap t ' other a ' top of your heart , when I ' m giving my orders , cook . What ! that your heart , there ?-- that ' s your gizzard ! Aloft ! aloft !-- that ' s it -- now you have it . Hold it there now , and pay attention ."

" On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie , Don ; but -- I crave your courtesy -- may be , you shall soon hear further of all that . Now , gentlemen , in square - sail brigs and three - masted ships , well - nigh as large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far Manilla ; this Lakeman , in the land - locked heart of our America , had yet been nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly connected with the open ocean . For in their interflowing aggregate , those grand fresh - water seas of ours ,-- Erie , and Ontario , and Huron , and Superior , and Michigan ,-- possess an ocean - like expansiveness , with many of the ocean ' s noblest traits ; with many of its rimmed varieties of races and of climes . They contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles , even as the Polynesian waters do ; in large part , are shored by two great contrasting nations , as the Atlantic is ; they furnish long maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East , dotted all round their banks ; here and there are frowned upon by batteries , and by the goat - like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw ; they have heard the fleet thunderings of naval victories ; at intervals , they yield their beaches to wild barbarians , whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams ; for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests , where the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies ; those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey , and silken creatures whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors ; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland , as well as Winnebago villages ; they float alike the full - rigged merchant ship , the armed cruiser of the State , the steamer , and the beech canoe ; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as direful as any that lash the salted wave ; they know what shipwrecks are , for out of sight of land , however inland , they have drowned full many a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew . Thus , gentlemen , though an inlander , Steelkilt was wild - ocean born , and wild - ocean nurtured ; as much of an audacious mariner as any . And for Radney , though in his infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach , to nurse at his maternal sea ; though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific ; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods seaman , fresh from the latitudes of buck - horn handled bowie - knives . Yet was this Nantucketer a man with some good - hearted traits ; and this Lakeman , a mariner , who though a sort of devil indeed , might yet by inflexible firmness , only tempered by that common decency of human recognition which is the meanest slave ' s right ; thus treated , this Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile . At all events , he had proved so thus far ; but Radney was doomed and made mad , and Steelkilt -- but , gentlemen , you shall hear .

Instantly the captain ran forward , and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the cutting - tackles , and at once cast loose the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship .

Another thing . Flask was the last person down at the dinner , and Flask is the first man up . Consider ! For hereby Flask ' s dinner was badly jammed in point of time . Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him ; and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear . If Stubb even , who is but a peg higher than Flask , happens to have but a small appetite , and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast , then Flask must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day ; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck . Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private , that ever since he had arisen to the dignity of an officer , from that moment he had never known what it was to be otherwise than hungry , more or less . For what he ate did not so much relieve his hunger , as keep it immortal in him . Peace and satisfaction , thought Flask , have for ever departed from my stomach . I am an officer ; but , how I wish I could fish a bit of old - fashioned beef in the forecastle , as I used to when I was before the mast . There ' s the fruits of promotion now ; there ' s the vanity of glory : there ' s the insanity of life ! Besides , if it were so that any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask ' s official capacity , all that sailor had to do , in order to obtain ample vengeance , was to go aft at dinner - time , and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky - light , sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab .

Thus the whale - line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils , twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction . All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions ; so that to the timid eye of the landsman , they seem as Indian jugglers , with the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs . Nor can any son of mortal woman , for the first time , seat himself amid those hempen intricacies , and while straining his utmost at the oar , bethink him that at any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted , and all these horrible contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings ; he cannot be thus circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones to quiver in him like a shaken jelly . Yet habit -- strange thing ! what cannot habit accomplish ?-- Gayer sallies , more merry mirth , better jokes , and brighter repartees , you never heard over your mahogany , than you will hear over the half - inch white cedar of the whale - boat , when thus hung in hangman ' s nooses ; and , like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward , the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death , with a halter around every neck , as you may say .

" Ah , my dear fellow , you can ' t fool us that way -- you can ' t fool us . It is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him ."

" WHALE . ... It is more immediately from the Dut . and Ger . WALLEN ; A . S . WALW - IAN , to roll , to wallow ." -- RICHARDSON ' S DICTIONARY

So fare thee well , poor devil of a Sub - Sub , whose commentator I am . Thou belongest to that hopeless , sallow tribe which no wine of this world will ever warm ; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy - strong ; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit , and feel poor - devilish , too ; and grow convivial upon tears ; and say to them bluntly , with full eyes and empty glasses , and in not altogether unpleasant sadness -- Give it up , Sub - Subs ! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world , by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless ! Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye ! But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal - mast with your hearts ; for your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven - storied heavens , and making refugees of long - pampered Gabriel , Michael , and Raphael , against your coming . Here ye strike but splintered hearts together -- there , ye shall strike unsplinterable glasses !

" Do you is all sharks , and by natur wery woracious , yet I zay to you , fellow - critters , dat dat woraciousness --' top dat dam slappin ' ob de tail ! How you tink to hear , spose you keep up such a dam slappin ' and bitin ' dare ?"

Now comes the Baling of the Case . But to comprehend it aright , you must know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated upon .

All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air . But it bade fair to outstrip them ; it flew on and on , as a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the hills .

The Specksynder .

" Mrs . Hussey ," said I , " he ' s ALIVE at all events ; so leave us , if you please , and I will see to this strange affair myself ."

PORTUGUESE SAILOR . How the sea rolls swashing ' gainst the side ! Stand by for reefing , hearties ! the winds are just crossing swords , pell - mell they ' ll go lunging presently .

But there was no time for shuddering , for now the savage went about something that completely fascinated my attention , and convinced me that he must indeed be a heathen . Going to his heavy grego , or wrapall , or dreadnaught , which he had previously hung on a chair , he fumbled in the pockets , and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch on its back , and exactly the colour of a three days ' old Congo baby . Remembering the embalmed head , at first I almost thought that this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner . But seeing that it was not at all limber , and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony , I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol , which indeed it proved to be . For now the savage goes up to the empty fire - place , and removing the papered fire - board , sets up this little hunch - backed image , like a tenpin , between the andirons . The chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty , so that I thought this fire - place made a very appropriate little shrine or chapel for his Congo idol .

"' What are you making there ?' said a shipmate .

Returning from my first morning stroll , I again sallied out upon this special errand . The sky had changed from clear , sunny cold , to driving sleet and mist . Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called bearskin , I fought my way against the stubborn storm . Entering , I found a small scattered congregation of sailors , and sailors ' wives and widows . A muffled silence reigned , only broken at times by the shrieks of the storm . Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from the other , as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable . The chaplain had not yet arrived ; and there these silent islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets , with black borders , masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit . Three of them ran something like the following , but I do not pretend to quote :--

Tashtego stood in the bows . He was full of the fire of the hunt . He hated Pip for a poltroon . Snatching the boat - knife from its sheath , he suspended its sharp edge over the line , and turning towards Stubb , exclaimed interrogatively , " Cut ?" Meantime Pip ' s blue , choked face plainly looked , Do , for God ' s sake ! All passed in a flash . In less than half a minute , this entire thing happened .

CHAPTER 60

" Who - e debel you ?" -- he at last said --" you no speak - e , dam - me , I kill - e ." And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the dark .

Stubb ' s exordium to his crew is given here at large , because he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general , and especially in inculcating the religion of rowing . But you must not suppose from this specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with his congregation . Not at all ; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity . He would say the most terrific things to his crew , in a tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury , and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a spice to the fun , that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without pulling for dear life , and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing . Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself , so loungingly managed his steering - oar , and so broadly gaped -- open - mouthed at times -- that the mere sight of such a yawning commander , by sheer force of contrast , acted like a charm upon the crew . Then again , Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists , whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous , as to put all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them .

TASHTEGO . ( QUIETLY SMOKING ) That ' s a white man ; he calls that fun : humph ! I save my sweat .

" With what ?" shouted I .

The Dart .

It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman , that a most significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod ' s crew ; an event most lamentable ; and which ended in providing the sometimes madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own .

But no more of this blubbering now , we are going a - whaling , and there is plenty of that yet to come . Let us scrape the ice from our frosted feet , and see what sort of a place this " Spouter " may be .

I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia ; expressing the idea very plainly , so that he could take it in . He said no ; only upon one memorable occasion . It was after a great feast given by his father the king , on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o ' clock in the afternoon , and all cooked and eaten that very evening .

But before going further , it is important to mention here , that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance , yet it is seldom done ; and when done , is still less frequently successful , on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as compared with the lance , which in effect become serious drawbacks . As a general thing , therefore , you must first get fast to a whale , before any pitchpoling comes into play .

' Twas not so hard a task . I thought to find one stubborn , at the least ; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels , and they revolve . Or , if you will , like so many ant - hills of powder , they all stand before me ; and I their match . Oh , hard ! that to fire others , the match itself must needs be wasting ! What I ' ve dared , I ' ve willed ; and what I ' ve willed , I ' ll do ! They think me mad -- Starbuck does ; but I ' m demoniac , I am madness maddened ! That wild madness that ' s only calm to comprehend itself ! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered ; and -- Aye ! I lost this leg . I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer . Now , then , be the prophet and the fulfiller one . That ' s more than ye , ye great gods , ever were . I laugh and hoot at ye , ye cricket - players , ye pugilists , ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes ! I will not say as schoolboys do to bullies -- Take some one of your own size ; don ' t pommel ME ! No , ye ' ve knocked me down , and I am up again ; but YE have run and hidden . Come forth from behind your cotton bags ! I have no long gun to reach ye . Come , Ahab ' s compliments to ye ; come and see if ye can swerve me . Swerve me ? ye cannot swerve me , else ye swerve yourselves ! man has ye there . Swerve me ? The path to my fixed purpose is laid with iron rails , whereon my soul is grooved to run . Over unsounded gorges , through the rifled hearts of mountains , under torrents ' beds , unerringly I rush ! Naught ' s an obstacle , naught ' s an angle to the iron way !

" No , no , no ; I wasn ' t aware of that ," said Elijah , slowly and wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg , with the most unaccountable glances .

Thus much being said , attend now , I pray you , to that marvellous and -- in this particular instance -- almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Whale ' s great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped .

" No , cook ; go on , go on ."

" Man overboard !" cried Daggoo , who amid the general consternation first came to his senses . " Swing the bucket this way !" and putting one foot into it , so as the better to secure his slippery hand - hold on the whip itself , the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head , almost before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom . Meantime , there was a terrible tumult . Looking over the side , they saw the before lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea , as if that moment seized with some momentous idea ; whereas it was only the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which he had sunk ." Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg -- that ' s who ye are speaking to , young man . It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted out for the voyage , and supplied with all her needs , including crew . We are part owners and agents . But as I was going to say , if thou wantest to know what whaling is , as thou tellest ye do , I can put ye in a way of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it , past backing out . Clap eye on Captain Ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he has only one leg ."

I will now refer you to Langsdorff ' s Voyages for a little circumstance in point , peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof . Langsdorff , you must know by the way , was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern ' s famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century . Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter :

Meantime , they hauled more and more upon their lines , till close flanking him on both sides , Stubb answered Flask with lance for lance ; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went , while the multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale ' s body , rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled , thirstily drinking at every new gash , as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains that poured from the smitten rock .

" God bless ye , and have ye in His holy keeping , men ," murmured old Bildad , almost incoherently . " I hope ye ' ll have fine weather now , so that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye -- a pleasant sun is all he needs , and ye ' ll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go . Be careful in the hunt , ye mates . Don ' t stave the boats needlessly , ye harpooneers ; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent . within the year . Don ' t forget your prayers , either . Mr . Starbuck , mind that cooper don ' t waste the spare staves . Oh ! the sail - needles are in the green locker ! Don ' t whale it too much a ' Lord ' s days , men ; but don ' t miss a fair chance either , that ' s rejecting Heaven ' s good gifts . Have an eye to the molasses tierce , Mr . Stubb ; it was a little leaky , I thought . If ye touch at the islands , Mr . Flask , beware of fornication . Good - bye , good - bye ! Don ' t keep that cheese too long down in the hold , Mr . Starbuck ; it ' ll spoil . Be careful with the butter -- twenty cents the pound it was , and mind ye , if --"

It was during the more pleasant weather , that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast - head came round .

" Cough be damned ! Pass along that return bucket ."

" Come hither to me -- hither , hither ," said Peleg , with a significance in his eye that almost startled me . " Look ye , lad ; never say that on board the Pequod . Never say it anywhere . Captain Ahab did not name himself . ' Twas a foolish , ignorant whim of his crazy , widowed mother , who died when he was only a twelvemonth old . And yet the old squaw Tistig , at Gayhead , said that the name would somehow prove prophetic . And , perhaps , other fools like her may tell thee the same . I wish to warn thee . It ' s a lie . I know Captain Ahab well ; I ' ve sailed with him as mate years ago ; I know what he is -- a good man -- not a pious , good man , like Bildad , but a swearing good man -- something like me -- only there ' s a good deal more of him . Aye , aye , I know that he was never very jolly ; and I know that on the passage home , he was a little out of his mind for a spell ; but it was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump that brought that about , as any one might see . I know , too , that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale , he ' s been a kind of moody -- desperate moody , and savage sometimes ; but that will all pass off . And once for all , let me tell thee and assure thee , young man , it ' s better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one . So good - bye to thee -- and wrong not Captain Ahab , because he happens to have a wicked name . Besides , my boy , he has a wife -- not three voyages wedded -- a sweet , resigned girl . Think of that ; by that sweet girl that old man has a child : hold ye then there can be any utter , hopeless harm in Ahab ? No , no , my lad ; stricken , blasted , if he be , Ahab has his humanities !"

Then , again , in 1825 , Bernard Germain , Count de Lacepede , a great naturalist , published a scientific systemized whale book , wherein are several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan . All these are not only incorrect , but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale ( that is to say , the Right whale ), even Scoresby , a long experienced man as touching that species , declares not to have its counterpart in nature .

CHAPTER 59

Look now at Stubb ; a man who from his humorous , deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies , was specially qualified to excel in pitchpoling . Look at him ; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the flying boat ; wrapt in fleecy foam , the towing whale is forty feet ahead . Handling the long lance lightly , glancing twice or thrice along its length to see if it be exactly straight , Stubb whistlingly gathers up the coil of the warp in one hand , so as to secure its free end in his grasp , leaving the rest unobstructed . Then holding the lance full before his waistband ' s middle , he levels it at the whale ; when , covering him with it , he steadily depresses the butt - end in his hand , thereby elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm , fifteen feet in the air . He minds you somewhat of a juggler , balancing a long staff on his chin . Next moment with a rapid , nameless impulse , in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming distance , and quivers in the life spot of the whale . Instead of sparkling water , he now spouts red blood .

" On one occasion I saw two of these monsters ( whales ) probably male and female , slowly swimming , one after the other , within less than a stone ' s throw of the shore " ( Terra Del Fuego ), " over which the beech tree extended its branches ." -- DARWIN ' S VOYAGE OF A NATURALIST .

Now having a night , a day , and still another night following before me in New Bedford , ere I could embark for my destined port , it became a matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile . It was a very dubious - looking , nay , a very dark and dismal night , bitingly cold and cheerless . I knew no one in the place . With anxious grapnels I had sounded my pocket , and only brought up a few pieces of silver ,-- So , wherever you go , Ishmael , said I to myself , as I stood in the middle of a dreary street shouldering my bag , and comparing the gloom towards the north with the darkness towards the south -- wherever in your wisdom you may conclude to lodge for the night , my dear Ishmael , be sure to inquire the price , and don ' t be too particular .

Walking the deck with quick , side - lunging strides , Ahab commanded the t ' gallant sails and royals to be set , and every stunsail spread . The best man in the ship must take the helm . Then , with every mast - head manned , the piled - up craft rolled down before the wind . The strange , upheaving , lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows of so many sails , made the buoyant , hovering deck to feel like air beneath the feet ; while still she rushed along , as if two antagonistic influences were struggling in her -- one to mount direct to heaven , the other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal . And had you watched Ahab ' s face that night , you would have thought that in him also two different things were warring . While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck , every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin - tap . On life and death this old man walked . But though the ship so swiftly sped , and though from every eye , like arrows , the eager glances shot , yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night . Every sailor swore he saw it once , but not a second time .

" We have been at great trouble , and peril , and some expense , and is all that to go to the Duke ' s benefit ; we getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters ?"

Be it said , however , that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species . Where one of that sort go down , twenty Right Whales do . This difference in the species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale ; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton ; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free . But there are instances where , after the lapse of many hours or several days , the sunken whale again rises , more buoyant than in life . But the reason of this is obvious . Gases are generated in him ; he swells to a prodigious magnitude ; becomes a sort of animal balloon . A line - of - battle ship could hardly keep him under then . In the Shore Whaling , on soundings , among the Bays of New Zealand , when a Right Whale gives token of sinking , they fasten buoys to him , with plenty of rope ; so that when the body has gone down , they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again .

I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas , something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale - ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there . It may be worth while , therefore , previously to advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman . It is time to set the world right in this matter , by proving such pictures of the whale all wrong .

CHAPTER 70

" May be ; may be . But it ' s made a wise man of me , Flask . D ' ye see Ahab standing there , sideways looking over the stern ? Well , the best thing you can do , Flask , is to let the old man alone ; never speak to him , whatever he says . Halloa ! What ' s that he shouts ? Hark !"

" Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks , the infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over ; he rears his enormous head , and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him ; he rushes at the boats with his head ; they are propelled before him with vast swiftness , and sometimes utterly destroyed . ... It is a matter of great astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so interesting , and , in a commercial point of view , so important an animal ( as the Sperm Whale ) should have been so entirely neglected , or should have excited so little curiosity among the numerous , and many of them competent observers , that of late years , must have possessed the most abundant and the most convenient opportunities of witnessing their habitudes ." -- THOMAS BEALE ' S HISTORY OF THE SPERM WHALE , 1839 .

But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on board , as she did the last day , with a long oil - ladle in one hand , and a still longer whaling lance in the other . Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward . As for Bildad , he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed , and at every fresh arrival , down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper . Every once in a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den , roaring at the men down the hatchways , roaring up to the riggers at the mast - head , and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam .

It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale ' s prodigious head hanging to the Pequod ' s side . But we must let it continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it . For the present other matters press , and the best we can do now for the head , is to pray heaven the tackles may hold .

" But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct , he kept his own counsel ( at least till all was over ) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles of his heart . He was in Radney the chief mate ' s watch ; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than half way to meet his doom , after the scene at the rigging , he insisted , against the express counsel of the captain , upon resuming the head of his watch at night . Upon this , and one or two other circumstances , Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge .

I considered the matter a moment , and then up stairs we went , and I was ushered into a small room , cold as a clam , and furnished , sure enough , with a prodigious bed , almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep abreast .

The hours wore on ;-- Ahab now shut up within his cabin ; anon , pacing the deck , with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect .

" No , sir ; not yet ," said Stubb , emboldened , " I will not tamely be called a dog , sir ."

CHAPTER 17

ALL . The squall ! the squall ! jump , my jollies ! ( THEY SCATTER .)

" Where - away ?"

Secondly : The ship Union , also of Nantucket , was in the year 1807 totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset , but the authentic particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter , though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it .

But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order , a pale man , with a bandaged head , arrested them -- Radney the chief mate . Ever since the blow , he had lain in his berth ; but that morning , hearing the tumult on the deck , he had crept out , and thus far had watched the whole scene . Such was the state of his mouth , that he could hardly speak ; but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the captain dared not attempt , he snatched the rope and advanced to his pinioned foe .

" Dost know nothing at all about whaling , I dare say -- eh ?

Ere long , from his first visit in the air , he withdrew into his cabin . But after that morning , he was every day visible to the crew ; either standing in his pivot - hole , or seated upon an ivory stool he had ; or heavily walking the deck . As the sky grew less gloomy ; indeed , began to grow a little genial , he became still less and less a recluse ; as if , when the ship had sailed from home , nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded . And , by and by , it came to pass , that he was almost continually in the air ; but , as yet , for all that he said , or perceptibly did , on the at last sunny deck , he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast . But the Pequod was only making a passage now ; not regularly cruising ; nearly all whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to , so that there was little or nothing , out of himself , to employ or excite Ahab , now ; and thus chase away , for that one interval , the clouds that layer upon layer were piled upon his brow , as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon .

" I think I remember some such story as you were telling ," said Flask , when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the ship , " but I can ' t remember where ."

" He wants you to take a glass of wine with him ," said the interpreter .

BOOK I . ( FOLIO ), CHAPTER I . ( SPERM WHALE ).-- This whale , among the English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale , and the Physeter whale , and the Anvil Headed whale , is the present Cachalot of the French , and the Pottsfich of the Germans , and the Macrocephalus of the Long Words . He is , without doubt , the largest inhabitant of the globe ; the most formidable of all whales to encounter ; the most majestic in aspect ; and lastly , by far the most valuable in commerce ; he being the only creature from which that valuable substance , spermaceti , is obtained . All his peculiarities will , in many other places , be enlarged upon . It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do . Philologically considered , it is absurd . Some centuries ago , when the Sperm whale was almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality , and when his oil was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish ; in those days spermaceti , it would seem , was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale . It was the idea also , that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses . In those times , also , spermaceti was exceedingly scarce , not being used for light , but only as an ointment and medicament . It was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb . When , as I opine , in the course of time , the true nature of spermaceti became known , its original name was still retained by the dealers ; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity . And so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti was really derived .

For some time past , though at intervals only , the unaccompanied , secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen . But not all of them knew of his existence ; only a few of them , comparatively , had knowingly seen him ; while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him , was small indeed . For , owing to the large number of whale - cruisers ; the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference , many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes , so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch , to encounter a single news - telling sail of any sort ; the inordinate length of each separate voyage ; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home ; all these , with other circumstances , direct and indirect , long obstructed the spread through the whole world - wide whaling - fleet of the special individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick . It was hardly to be doubted , that several vessels reported to have encountered , at such or such a time , or on such or such a meridian , a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity , which whale , after doing great mischief to his assailants , had completely escaped them ; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption , I say , that the whale in question must have been no other than Moby Dick . Yet as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not unfrequent instances of great ferocity , cunning , and malice in the monster attacked ; therefore it was , that those who by accident ignorantly gave battle to Moby Dick ; such hunters , perhaps , for the most part , were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred , more , as it were , to the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large , than to the individual cause . In that way , mostly , the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded .

" Queequeg no care what god made him shark ," said the savage , agonizingly lifting his hand up and down ; " wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god ; but de god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin ."

Wet , drenched through , and shivering cold , despairing of ship or boat , we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on . The mist still spread over the sea , the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat . Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet , hollowing his hand to his ear . We all heard a faint creaking , as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by the storm . The sound came nearer and nearer ; the thick mists were dimly parted by a huge , vague form . Affrighted , we all sprang into the sea as the ship at last loomed into view , bearing right down upon us within a distance of not much more than its length .

Even as it was , I thought something of slipping out of the window , but it was the second floor back . I am no coward , but what to make of this head - peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension . Ignorance is the parent of fear , and being completely nonplussed and confounded about the stranger , I confess I was now as much afraid of him as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of night . In fact , I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then to address him , and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed inexplicable in him .

" No ," said Peleg , " and he hasn ' t been baptized right either , or it would have washed some of that devil ' s blue off his face ."

" A mariner sat in the shrouds one night , The wind was piping free ; Now bright , now dimmed , was the moonlight pale , And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale , As it floundered in the sea ." -- ELIZABETH OAKES SMITH .

The Castaway .

" The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the water - works at London Bridge , and the water roaring in its passage through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood gushing from the whale ' s heart ." -- PALEY ' S THEOLOGY .

With memories like these in him , and , moreover , given to a certain superstitiousness , as has been said ; the courage of this Starbuck which could , nevertheless , still flourish , must indeed have been extreme . But it was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized , and with such terrible experiences and remembrances as he had ; it was not in nature that these things should fail in latently engendering an element in him , which , under suitable circumstances , would break out from its confinement , and burn all his courage up . And brave as he might be , it was that sort of bravery chiefly , visible in some intrepid men , which , while generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas , or winds , or whales , or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world , yet cannot withstand those more terrific , because more spiritual terrors , which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged and mighty man .

Ship and boat diverged ; the cold , damp night breeze blew between ; a screaming gull flew overhead ; the two hulls wildly rolled ; we gave three heavy - hearted cheers , and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic .

" Who ' s Old Thunder ?" said I , again riveted with the insane earnestness of his manner .

" Good night , landlord ," said I , " you may go ."

"' Will you be so good as to bring the priest also , Don ?'

" Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him ; One would think the deep to be hoary ." -- JOB .

CHAPTER 53

Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me , I had noticed that the seamen at the main and mizzen - mast - heads were already drowsy . So that at last all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars , and for every swing that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman . The waves , too , nodded their indolent crests ; and across the wide trance of the sea , east nodded to west , and the sun over all .

Next morning , Monday , after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber , for a block , I settled my own and comrade ' s bill ; using , however , my comrade ' s money . The grinning landlord , as well as the boarders , seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between me and Queequeg -- especially as Peter Coffin ' s cock and bull stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person whom I now companied with .

As he mounted the deck , Ahab abruptly accosted him , without at all heeding what he had in his hand ; but in his broken lingo , the German soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale ; immediately turning the conversation to his lamp - feeder and oil can , with some remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in profound darkness -- his last drop of Bremen oil being gone , and not a single flying - fish yet captured to supply the deficiency ; concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically called a CLEAN one ( that is , an empty one ), well deserving the name of Jungfrau or the Virgin .

The Prophet .

Every whale - ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships , whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed , depends upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans . Thus , most letters never reach their mark ; and many are only received after attaining an age of two or three years or more .

Though many of the whales , as has been said , were in violent motion , yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor retreated , but collectively remained in one place . As is customary in those cases , the boats at once separated , each making for some one lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal . In about three minutes ' time , Queequeg ' s harpoon was flung ; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces , and then running away with us like light , steered straight for the heart of the herd . Though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such circumstances , is in no wise unprecedented ; and indeed is almost always more or less anticipated ; yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery . For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal , you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a delirious throb .

Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo , a gigantic , coal - black negro - savage , with a lion - like tread -- an Ahasuerus to behold . Suspended from his ears were two golden hoops , so large that the sailors called them ring - bolts , and would talk of securing the top - sail halyards to them . In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler , lying in a lonely bay on his native coast . And never having been anywhere in the world but in Africa , Nantucket , and the pagan harbors most frequented by whalemen ; and having now led for many years the bold life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what manner of men they shipped ; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues , and erect as a giraffe , moved about the decks in all the pomp of six feet five in his socks . There was a corporeal humility in looking up at him ; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress . Curious to tell , this imperial negro , Ahasuerus Daggoo , was the Squire of little Flask , who looked like a chess - man beside him . As for the residue of the Pequod ' s company , be it said , that at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the mast employed in the American whale fishery , are Americans born , though pretty nearly all the officers are . Herein it is the same with the American whale fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies , and the engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and Railroads . The same , I say , because in all these cases the native American liberally provides the brains , the rest of the world as generously supplying the muscles . No small number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores , where the outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores . In like manner , the Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London , put in at the Shetland Islands , to receive the full complement of their crew . Upon the passage homewards , they drop them there again . How it is , there is no telling , but Islanders seem to make the best whalemen . They were nearly all Islanders in the Pequod , ISOLATOES too , I call such , not acknowledging the common continent of men , but each ISOLATO living on a separate continent of his own . Yet now , federated along one keel , what a set these Isolatoes were ! An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles of the sea , and all the ends of the earth , accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay the world ' s grievances before that bar from which not very many of them ever come back . Black Little Pip -- he never did -- oh , no ! he went before . Poor Alabama boy ! On the grim Pequod ' s forecastle , ye shall ere long see him , beating his tambourine ; prelusive of the eternal time , when sent for , to the great quarter - deck on high , he was bid strike in with angels , and beat his tambourine in glory ; called a coward here , hailed a hero there !

Coffin ?-- Spouter ?-- Rather ominous in that particular connexion , thought I . But it is a common name in Nantucket , they say , and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there . As the light looked so dim , and the place , for the time , looked quiet enough , and the dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt district , and as the swinging sign had a poverty - stricken sort of creak to it , I thought that here was the very spot for cheap lodgings , and the best of pea coffee .

Almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enormous mass dropped into the sea , like Niagara ' s Table - Rock into the whirlpool ; the suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it , to far down her glittering copper ; and all caught their breath , as half swinging -- now over the sailors ' heads , and now over the water -- Daggoo , through a thick mist of spray , was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles , while poor , buried - alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea ! But hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away , when a naked figure with a boarding - sword in his hand , was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks . The next , a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue . One packed rush was made to the side , and every eye counted every ripple , as moment followed moment , and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen . Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside , and pushed a little off from the ship .

" Do with it ? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home ;-- what else ?"

Sunset .

" Broke ," said I --" BROKE , do you mean ?"

" Woo - hoo ! Wa - hee !" screamed the Gay - Header in reply , raising some old war - whoop to the skies ; as every oarsman in the strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading stroke which the eager Indian gave .

" Aye , aye , I thought so . Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship ."

Folding back the counterpane , I stooped over the bed . Though none of the most elegant , it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well . I then glanced round the room ; and besides the bedstead and centre table , could see no other furniture belonging to the place , but a rude shelf , the four walls , and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale . Of things not properly belonging to the room , there was a hammock lashed up , and thrown upon the floor in one corner ; also a large seaman ' s bag , containing the harpooneer ' s wardrobe , no doubt in lieu of a land trunk . Likewise , there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf over the fire - place , and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed .

Heads or Tails .

Bethink yourself also of another thing . When two large , loaded Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks , what do the sailors do ? They do not suspend between them , at the point of coming contact , any merely hard substance , like iron or wood . No , they hold there a large , round wad of tow and cork , enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox - hide . That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow - bars . By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at . But supplementary to this , it has hypothetically occurred to me , that as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them , capable , at will , of distension or contraction ; and as the Sperm Whale , as far as I know , has no such provision in him ; considering , too , the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the surface , and anon swims with it high elevated out of the water ; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope ; considering the unique interior of his head ; it has hypothetically occurred to me , I say , that those mystical lung - celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with the outer air , so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and contraction . If this be so , fancy the irresistibleness of that might , to which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes .

" You said up there , didn ' t you ? and now look yourself , and see where your tongs are pointing . But , perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber ' s hole , cook ; but , no , no , cook , you don ' t get there , except you go the regular way , round by the rigging . It ' s a ticklish business , but must be done , or else it ' s no go . But none of us are in heaven yet . Drop your tongs , cook , and hear my orders . Do ye hear ? Hold your hat in one hand , and clap t ' other a ' top of your heart , when I ' m giving my orders , cook . What ! that your heart , there ?-- that ' s your gizzard ! Aloft ! aloft !-- that ' s it -- now you have it . Hold it there now , and pay attention ."

" On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie , Don ; but -- I crave your courtesy -- may be , you shall soon hear further of all that . Now , gentlemen , in square - sail brigs and three - masted ships , well - nigh as large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far Manilla ; this Lakeman , in the land - locked heart of our America , had yet been nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly connected with the open ocean . For in their interflowing aggregate , those grand fresh - water seas of ours ,-- Erie , and Ontario , and Huron , and Superior , and Michigan ,-- possess an ocean - like expansiveness , with many of the ocean ' s noblest traits ; with many of its rimmed varieties of races and of climes . They contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles , even as the Polynesian waters do ; in large part , are shored by two great contrasting nations , as the Atlantic is ; they furnish long maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East , dotted all round their banks ; here and there are frowned upon by batteries , and by the goat - like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw ; they have heard the fleet thunderings of naval victories ; at intervals , they yield their beaches to wild barbarians , whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams ; for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests , where the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies ; those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey , and silken creatures whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors ; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland , as well as Winnebago villages ; they float alike the full - rigged merchant ship , the armed cruiser of the State , the steamer , and the beech canoe ; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as direful as any that lash the salted wave ; they know what shipwrecks are , for out of sight of land , however inland , they have drowned full many a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew . Thus , gentlemen , though an inlander , Steelkilt was wild - ocean born , and wild - ocean nurtured ; as much of an audacious mariner as any . And for Radney , though in his infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach , to nurse at his maternal sea ; though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific ; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods seaman , fresh from the latitudes of buck - horn handled bowie - knives . Yet was this Nantucketer a man with some good - hearted traits ; and this Lakeman , a mariner , who though a sort of devil indeed , might yet by inflexible firmness , only tempered by that common decency of human recognition which is the meanest slave ' s right ; thus treated , this Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile . At all events , he had proved so thus far ; but Radney was doomed and made mad , and Steelkilt -- but , gentlemen , you shall hear .

Instantly the captain ran forward , and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the cutting - tackles , and at once cast loose the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship .

Another thing . Flask was the last person down at the dinner , and Flask is the first man up . Consider ! For hereby Flask ' s dinner was badly jammed in point of time . Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him ; and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear . If Stubb even , who is but a peg higher than Flask , happens to have but a small appetite , and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast , then Flask must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day ; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck . Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private , that ever since he had arisen to the dignity of an officer , from that moment he had never known what it was to be otherwise than hungry , more or less . For what he ate did not so much relieve his hunger , as keep it immortal in him . Peace and satisfaction , thought Flask , have for ever departed from my stomach . I am an officer ; but , how I wish I could fish a bit of old - fashioned beef in the forecastle , as I used to when I was before the mast . There ' s the fruits of promotion now ; there ' s the vanity of glory : there ' s the insanity of life ! Besides , if it were so that any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask ' s official capacity , all that sailor had to do , in order to obtain ample vengeance , was to go aft at dinner - time , and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky - light , sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab .

Thus the whale - line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils , twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction . All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions ; so that to the timid eye of the landsman , they seem as Indian jugglers , with the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs . Nor can any son of mortal woman , for the first time , seat himself amid those hempen intricacies , and while straining his utmost at the oar , bethink him that at any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted , and all these horrible contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings ; he cannot be thus circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones to quiver in him like a shaken jelly . Yet habit -- strange thing ! what cannot habit accomplish ?-- Gayer sallies , more merry mirth , better jokes , and brighter repartees , you never heard over your mahogany , than you will hear over the half - inch white cedar of the whale - boat , when thus hung in hangman ' s nooses ; and , like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward , the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death , with a halter around every neck , as you may say .

" Ah , my dear fellow , you can ' t fool us that way -- you can ' t fool us . It is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him ."

" WHALE . ... It is more immediately from the Dut . and Ger . WALLEN ; A . S . WALW - IAN , to roll , to wallow ." -- RICHARDSON ' S DICTIONARY

So fare thee well , poor devil of a Sub - Sub , whose commentator I am . Thou belongest to that hopeless , sallow tribe which no wine of this world will ever warm ; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy - strong ; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit , and feel poor - devilish , too ; and grow convivial upon tears ; and say to them bluntly , with full eyes and empty glasses , and in not altogether unpleasant sadness -- Give it up , Sub - Subs ! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world , by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless ! Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye ! But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal - mast with your hearts ; for your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven - storied heavens , and making refugees of long - pampered Gabriel , Michael , and Raphael , against your coming . Here ye strike but splintered hearts together -- there , ye shall strike unsplinterable glasses !

" Do you is all sharks , and by natur wery woracious , yet I zay to you , fellow - critters , dat dat woraciousness --' top dat dam slappin ' ob de tail ! How you tink to hear , spose you keep up such a dam slappin ' and bitin ' dare ?"

Now comes the Baling of the Case . But to comprehend it aright , you must know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated upon .

All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air . But it bade fair to outstrip them ; it flew on and on , as a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the hills .

The Specksynder .

" Mrs . Hussey ," said I , " he ' s ALIVE at all events ; so leave us , if you please , and I will see to this strange affair myself ."

PORTUGUESE SAILOR . How the sea rolls swashing ' gainst the side ! Stand by for reefing , hearties ! the winds are just crossing swords , pell - mell they ' ll go lunging presently .

But there was no time for shuddering , for now the savage went about something that completely fascinated my attention , and convinced me that he must indeed be a heathen . Going to his heavy grego , or wrapall , or dreadnaught , which he had previously hung on a chair , he fumbled in the pockets , and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch on its back , and exactly the colour of a three days ' old Congo baby . Remembering the embalmed head , at first I almost thought that this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner . But seeing that it was not at all limber , and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony , I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol , which indeed it proved to be . For now the savage goes up to the empty fire - place , and removing the papered fire - board , sets up this little hunch - backed image , like a tenpin , between the andirons . The chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty , so that I thought this fire - place made a very appropriate little shrine or chapel for his Congo idol .

"' What are you making there ?' said a shipmate .

Returning from my first morning stroll , I again sallied out upon this special errand . The sky had changed from clear , sunny cold , to driving sleet and mist . Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called bearskin , I fought my way against the stubborn storm . Entering , I found a small scattered congregation of sailors , and sailors ' wives and widows . A muffled silence reigned , only broken at times by the shrieks of the storm . Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from the other , as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable . The chaplain had not yet arrived ; and there these silent islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets , with black borders , masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit . Three of them ran something like the following , but I do not pretend to quote :--

Tashtego stood in the bows . He was full of the fire of the hunt . He hated Pip for a poltroon . Snatching the boat - knife from its sheath , he suspended its sharp edge over the line , and turning towards Stubb , exclaimed interrogatively , " Cut ?" Meantime Pip ' s blue , choked face plainly looked , Do , for God ' s sake ! All passed in a flash . In less than half a minute , this entire thing happened .

CHAPTER 60

" Who - e debel you ?" -- he at last said --" you no speak - e , dam - me , I kill - e ." And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the dark .

Stubb ' s exordium to his crew is given here at large , because he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general , and especially in inculcating the religion of rowing . But you must not suppose from this specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with his congregation . Not at all ; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity . He would say the most terrific things to his crew , in a tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury , and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a spice to the fun , that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without pulling for dear life , and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing . Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself , so loungingly managed his steering - oar , and so broadly gaped -- open - mouthed at times -- that the mere sight of such a yawning commander , by sheer force of contrast , acted like a charm upon the crew . Then again , Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists , whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous , as to put all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them .

TASHTEGO . ( QUIETLY SMOKING ) That ' s a white man ; he calls that fun : humph ! I save my sweat .

" With what ?" shouted I .

The Dart .

It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman , that a most significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod ' s crew ; an event most lamentable ; and which ended in providing the sometimes madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own .

But no more of this blubbering now , we are going a - whaling , and there is plenty of that yet to come . Let us scrape the ice from our frosted feet , and see what sort of a place this " Spouter " may be .

I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia ; expressing the idea very plainly , so that he could take it in . He said no ; only upon one memorable occasion . It was after a great feast given by his father the king , on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o ' clock in the afternoon , and all cooked and eaten that very evening .

But before going further , it is important to mention here , that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance , yet it is seldom done ; and when done , is still less frequently successful , on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as compared with the lance , which in effect become serious drawbacks . As a general thing , therefore , you must first get fast to a whale , before any pitchpoling comes into play .

' Twas not so hard a task . I thought to find one stubborn , at the least ; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels , and they revolve . Or , if you will , like so many ant - hills of powder , they all stand before me ; and I their match . Oh , hard ! that to fire others , the match itself must needs be wasting ! What I ' ve dared , I ' ve willed ; and what I ' ve willed , I ' ll do ! They think me mad -- Starbuck does ; but I ' m demoniac , I am madness maddened ! That wild madness that ' s only calm to comprehend itself ! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered ; and -- Aye ! I lost this leg . I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer . Now , then , be the prophet and the fulfiller one . That ' s more than ye , ye great gods , ever were . I laugh and hoot at ye , ye cricket - players , ye pugilists , ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes ! I will not say as schoolboys do to bullies -- Take some one of your own size ; don ' t pommel ME ! No , ye ' ve knocked me down , and I am up again ; but YE have run and hidden . Come forth from behind your cotton bags ! I have no long gun to reach ye . Come , Ahab ' s compliments to ye ; come and see if ye can swerve me . Swerve me ? ye cannot swerve me , else ye swerve yourselves ! man has ye there . Swerve me ? The path to my fixed purpose is laid with iron rails , whereon my soul is grooved to run . Over unsounded gorges , through the rifled hearts of mountains , under torrents ' beds , unerringly I rush ! Naught ' s an obstacle , naught ' s an angle to the iron way !

" No , no , no ; I wasn ' t aware of that ," said Elijah , slowly and wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg , with the most unaccountable glances .

Thus much being said , attend now , I pray you , to that marvellous and -- in this particular instance -- almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Whale ' s great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped .

" No , cook ; go on , go on ."

" Man overboard !" cried Daggoo , who amid the general consternation first came to his senses . " Swing the bucket this way !" and putting one foot into it , so as the better to secure his slippery hand - hold on the whip itself , the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head , almost before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom . Meantime , there was a terrible tumult . Looking over the side , they saw the before lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea , as if that moment seized with some momentous idea ; whereas it was only the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which he had sunk ." Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg -- that ' s who ye are speaking to , young man . It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted out for the voyage , and supplied with all her needs , including crew . We are part owners and agents . But as I was going to say , if thou wantest to know what whaling is , as thou tellest ye do , I can put ye in a way of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it , past backing out . Clap eye on Captain Ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he has only one leg ."

I will now refer you to Langsdorff ' s Voyages for a little circumstance in point , peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof . Langsdorff , you must know by the way , was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern ' s famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century . Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter :

Meantime , they hauled more and more upon their lines , till close flanking him on both sides , Stubb answered Flask with lance for lance ; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went , while the multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale ' s body , rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled , thirstily drinking at every new gash , as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains that poured from the smitten rock .

" God bless ye , and have ye in His holy keeping , men ," murmured old Bildad , almost incoherently . " I hope ye ' ll have fine weather now , so that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye -- a pleasant sun is all he needs , and ye ' ll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go . Be careful in the hunt , ye mates . Don ' t stave the boats needlessly , ye harpooneers ; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent . within the year . Don ' t forget your prayers , either . Mr . Starbuck , mind that cooper don ' t waste the spare staves . Oh ! the sail - needles are in the green locker ! Don ' t whale it too much a ' Lord ' s days , men ; but don ' t miss a fair chance either , that ' s rejecting Heaven ' s good gifts . Have an eye to the molasses tierce , Mr . Stubb ; it was a little leaky , I thought . If ye touch at the islands , Mr . Flask , beware of fornication . Good - bye , good - bye ! Don ' t keep that cheese too long down in the hold , Mr . Starbuck ; it ' ll spoil . Be careful with the butter -- twenty cents the pound it was , and mind ye , if --"

It was during the more pleasant weather , that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast - head came round .

" Cough be damned ! Pass along that return bucket ."

" Come hither to me -- hither , hither ," said Peleg , with a significance in his eye that almost startled me . " Look ye , lad ; never say that on board the Pequod . Never say it anywhere . Captain Ahab did not name himself . ' Twas a foolish , ignorant whim of his crazy , widowed mother , who died when he was only a twelvemonth old . And yet the old squaw Tistig , at Gayhead , said that the name would somehow prove prophetic . And , perhaps , other fools like her may tell thee the same . I wish to warn thee . It ' s a lie . I know Captain Ahab well ; I ' ve sailed with him as mate years ago ; I know what he is -- a good man -- not a pious , good man , like Bildad , but a swearing good man -- something like me -- only there ' s a good deal more of him . Aye , aye , I know that he was never very jolly ; and I know that on the passage home , he was a little out of his mind for a spell ; but it was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump that brought that about , as any one might see . I know , too , that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale , he ' s been a kind of moody -- desperate moody , and savage sometimes ; but that will all pass off . And once for all , let me tell thee and assure thee , young man , it ' s better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one . So good - bye to thee -- and wrong not Captain Ahab , because he happens to have a wicked name . Besides , my boy , he has a wife -- not three voyages wedded -- a sweet , resigned girl . Think of that ; by that sweet girl that old man has a child : hold ye then there can be any utter , hopeless harm in Ahab ? No , no , my lad ; stricken , blasted , if he be , Ahab has his humanities !"

Then , again , in 1825 , Bernard Germain , Count de Lacepede , a great naturalist , published a scientific systemized whale book , wherein are several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan . All these are not only incorrect , but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale ( that is to say , the Right whale ), even Scoresby , a long experienced man as touching that species , declares not to have its counterpart in nature .

CHAPTER 59

Look now at Stubb ; a man who from his humorous , deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies , was specially qualified to excel in pitchpoling . Look at him ; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the flying boat ; wrapt in fleecy foam , the towing whale is forty feet ahead . Handling the long lance lightly , glancing twice or thrice along its length to see if it be exactly straight , Stubb whistlingly gathers up the coil of the warp in one hand , so as to secure its free end in his grasp , leaving the rest unobstructed . Then holding the lance full before his waistband ' s middle , he levels it at the whale ; when , covering him with it , he steadily depresses the butt - end in his hand , thereby elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm , fifteen feet in the air . He minds you somewhat of a juggler , balancing a long staff on his chin . Next moment with a rapid , nameless impulse , in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming distance , and quivers in the life spot of the whale . Instead of sparkling water , he now spouts red blood .

" On one occasion I saw two of these monsters ( whales ) probably male and female , slowly swimming , one after the other , within less than a stone ' s throw of the shore " ( Terra Del Fuego ), " over which the beech tree extended its branches ." -- DARWIN ' S VOYAGE OF A NATURALIST .

Now having a night , a day , and still another night following before me in New Bedford , ere I could embark for my destined port , it became a matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile . It was a very dubious - looking , nay , a very dark and dismal night , bitingly cold and cheerless . I knew no one in the place . With anxious grapnels I had sounded my pocket , and only brought up a few pieces of silver ,-- So , wherever you go , Ishmael , said I to myself , as I stood in the middle of a dreary street shouldering my bag , and comparing the gloom towards the north with the darkness towards the south -- wherever in your wisdom you may conclude to lodge for the night , my dear Ishmael , be sure to inquire the price , and don ' t be too particular .

Walking the deck with quick , side - lunging strides , Ahab commanded the t ' gallant sails and royals to be set , and every stunsail spread . The best man in the ship must take the helm . Then , with every mast - head manned , the piled - up craft rolled down before the wind . The strange , upheaving , lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows of so many sails , made the buoyant , hovering deck to feel like air beneath the feet ; while still she rushed along , as if two antagonistic influences were struggling in her -- one to mount direct to heaven , the other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal . And had you watched Ahab ' s face that night , you would have thought that in him also two different things were warring . While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck , every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin - tap . On life and death this old man walked . But though the ship so swiftly sped , and though from every eye , like arrows , the eager glances shot , yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night . Every sailor swore he saw it once , but not a second time .

" We have been at great trouble , and peril , and some expense , and is all that to go to the Duke ' s benefit ; we getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters ?"

Be it said , however , that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species . Where one of that sort go down , twenty Right Whales do . This difference in the species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale ; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton ; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free . But there are instances where , after the lapse of many hours or several days , the sunken whale again rises , more buoyant than in life . But the reason of this is obvious . Gases are generated in him ; he swells to a prodigious magnitude ; becomes a sort of animal balloon . A line - of - battle ship could hardly keep him under then . In the Shore Whaling , on soundings , among the Bays of New Zealand , when a Right Whale gives token of sinking , they fasten buoys to him , with plenty of rope ; so that when the body has gone down , they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again .

I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas , something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale - ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there . It may be worth while , therefore , previously to advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman . It is time to set the world right in this matter , by proving such pictures of the whale all wrong .

CHAPTER 70

" May be ; may be . But it ' s made a wise man of me , Flask . D ' ye see Ahab standing there , sideways looking over the stern ? Well , the best thing you can do , Flask , is to let the old man alone ; never speak to him , whatever he says . Halloa ! What ' s that he shouts ? Hark !"

" Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks , the infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over ; he rears his enormous head , and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him ; he rushes at the boats with his head ; they are propelled before him with vast swiftness , and sometimes utterly destroyed . ... It is a matter of great astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so interesting , and , in a commercial point of view , so important an animal ( as the Sperm Whale ) should have been so entirely neglected , or should have excited so little curiosity among the numerous , and many of them competent observers , that of late years , must have possessed the most abundant and the most convenient opportunities of witnessing their habitudes ." -- THOMAS BEALE ' S HISTORY OF THE SPERM WHALE , 1839 .

But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on board , as she did the last day , with a long oil - ladle in one hand , and a still longer whaling lance in the other . Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward . As for Bildad , he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed , and at every fresh arrival , down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper . Every once in a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den , roaring at the men down the hatchways , roaring up to the riggers at the mast - head , and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam .

It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale ' s prodigious head hanging to the Pequod ' s side . But we must let it continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it . For the present other matters press , and the best we can do now for the head , is to pray heaven the tackles may hold .

" But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct , he kept his own counsel ( at least till all was over ) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles of his heart . He was in Radney the chief mate ' s watch ; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than half way to meet his doom , after the scene at the rigging , he insisted , against the express counsel of the captain , upon resuming the head of his watch at night . Upon this , and one or two other circumstances , Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge .

I considered the matter a moment , and then up stairs we went , and I was ushered into a small room , cold as a clam , and furnished , sure enough , with a prodigious bed , almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep abreast .

The hours wore on ;-- Ahab now shut up within his cabin ; anon , pacing the deck , with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect .

" No , sir ; not yet ," said Stubb , emboldened , " I will not tamely be called a dog , sir ."

CHAPTER 17

ALL . The squall ! the squall ! jump , my jollies ! ( THEY SCATTER .)

" Where - away ?"

Secondly : The ship Union , also of Nantucket , was in the year 1807 totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset , but the authentic particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter , though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it .

But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order , a pale man , with a bandaged head , arrested them -- Radney the chief mate . Ever since the blow , he had lain in his berth ; but that morning , hearing the tumult on the deck , he had crept out , and thus far had watched the whole scene . Such was the state of his mouth , that he could hardly speak ; but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the captain dared not attempt , he snatched the rope and advanced to his pinioned foe .

" Dost know nothing at all about whaling , I dare say -- eh ?

Ere long , from his first visit in the air , he withdrew into his cabin . But after that morning , he was every day visible to the crew ; either standing in his pivot - hole , or seated upon an ivory stool he had ; or heavily walking the deck . As the sky grew less gloomy ; indeed , began to grow a little genial , he became still less and less a recluse ; as if , when the ship had sailed from home , nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded . And , by and by , it came to pass , that he was almost continually in the air ; but , as yet , for all that he said , or perceptibly did , on the at last sunny deck , he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast . But the Pequod was only making a passage now ; not regularly cruising ; nearly all whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to , so that there was little or nothing , out of himself , to employ or excite Ahab , now ; and thus chase away , for that one interval , the clouds that layer upon layer were piled upon his brow , as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon .

" I think I remember some such story as you were telling ," said Flask , when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the ship , " but I can ' t remember where ."

" He wants you to take a glass of wine with him ," said the interpreter .

BOOK I . ( FOLIO ), CHAPTER I . ( SPERM WHALE ).-- This whale , among the English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale , and the Physeter whale , and the Anvil Headed whale , is the present Cachalot of the French , and the Pottsfich of the Germans , and the Macrocephalus of the Long Words . He is , without doubt , the largest inhabitant of the globe ; the most formidable of all whales to encounter ; the most majestic in aspect ; and lastly , by far the most valuable in commerce ; he being the only creature from which that valuable substance , spermaceti , is obtained . All his peculiarities will , in many other places , be enlarged upon . It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do . Philologically considered , it is absurd . Some centuries ago , when the Sperm whale was almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality , and when his oil was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish ; in those days spermaceti , it would seem , was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale . It was the idea also , that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses . In those times , also , spermaceti was exceedingly scarce , not being used for light , but only as an ointment and medicament . It was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb . When , as I opine , in the course of time , the true nature of spermaceti became known , its original name was still retained by the dealers ; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity . And so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti was really derived .

For some time past , though at intervals only , the unaccompanied , secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen . But not all of them knew of his existence ; only a few of them , comparatively , had knowingly seen him ; while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him , was small indeed . For , owing to the large number of whale - cruisers ; the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference , many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes , so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch , to encounter a single news - telling sail of any sort ; the inordinate length of each separate voyage ; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home ; all these , with other circumstances , direct and indirect , long obstructed the spread through the whole world - wide whaling - fleet of the special individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick . It was hardly to be doubted , that several vessels reported to have encountered , at such or such a time , or on such or such a meridian , a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity , which whale , after doing great mischief to his assailants , had completely escaped them ; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption , I say , that the whale in question must have been no other than Moby Dick . Yet as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not unfrequent instances of great ferocity , cunning , and malice in the monster attacked ; therefore it was , that those who by accident ignorantly gave battle to Moby Dick ; such hunters , perhaps , for the most part , were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred , more , as it were , to the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large , than to the individual cause . In that way , mostly , the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded .

" Queequeg no care what god made him shark ," said the savage , agonizingly lifting his hand up and down ; " wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god ; but de god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin ."

Wet , drenched through , and shivering cold , despairing of ship or boat , we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on . The mist still spread over the sea , the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat . Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet , hollowing his hand to his ear . We all heard a faint creaking , as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by the storm . The sound came nearer and nearer ; the thick mists were dimly parted by a huge , vague form . Affrighted , we all sprang into the sea as the ship at last loomed into view , bearing right down upon us within a distance of not much more than its length .

Even as it was , I thought something of slipping out of the window , but it was the second floor back . I am no coward , but what to make of this head - peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension . Ignorance is the parent of fear , and being completely nonplussed and confounded about the stranger , I confess I was now as much afraid of him as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of night . In fact , I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then to address him , and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed inexplicable in him .

" No ," said Peleg , " and he hasn ' t been baptized right either , or it would have washed some of that devil ' s blue off his face ."

" A mariner sat in the shrouds one night , The wind was piping free ; Now bright , now dimmed , was the moonlight pale , And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale , As it floundered in the sea ." -- ELIZABETH OAKES SMITH .

The Castaway .

" The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the water - works at London Bridge , and the water roaring in its passage through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood gushing from the whale ' s heart ." -- PALEY ' S THEOLOGY .

With memories like these in him , and , moreover , given to a certain superstitiousness , as has been said ; the courage of this Starbuck which could , nevertheless , still flourish , must indeed have been extreme . But it was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized , and with such terrible experiences and remembrances as he had ; it was not in nature that these things should fail in latently engendering an element in him , which , under suitable circumstances , would break out from its confinement , and burn all his courage up . And brave as he might be , it was that sort of bravery chiefly , visible in some intrepid men , which , while generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas , or winds , or whales , or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world , yet cannot withstand those more terrific , because more spiritual terrors , which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged and mighty man .

Ship and boat diverged ; the cold , damp night breeze blew between ; a screaming gull flew overhead ; the two hulls wildly rolled ; we gave three heavy - hearted cheers , and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic .

" Who ' s Old Thunder ?" said I , again riveted with the insane earnestness of his manner .

" Good night , landlord ," said I , " you may go ."

"' Will you be so good as to bring the priest also , Don ?'

" Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him ; One would think the deep to be hoary ." -- JOB .

CHAPTER 53

Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me , I had noticed that the seamen at the main and mizzen - mast - heads were already drowsy . So that at last all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars , and for every swing that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman . The waves , too , nodded their indolent crests ; and across the wide trance of the sea , east nodded to west , and the sun over all .

Next morning , Monday , after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber , for a block , I settled my own and comrade ' s bill ; using , however , my comrade ' s money . The grinning landlord , as well as the boarders , seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between me and Queequeg -- especially as Peter Coffin ' s cock and bull stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person whom I now companied with .

As he mounted the deck , Ahab abruptly accosted him , without at all heeding what he had in his hand ; but in his broken lingo , the German soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale ; immediately turning the conversation to his lamp - feeder and oil can , with some remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in profound darkness -- his last drop of Bremen oil being gone , and not a single flying - fish yet captured to supply the deficiency ; concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically called a CLEAN one ( that is , an empty one ), well deserving the name of Jungfrau or the Virgin .

The Prophet .

Every whale - ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships , whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed , depends upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans . Thus , most letters never reach their mark ; and many are only received after attaining an age of two or three years or more .

Though many of the whales , as has been said , were in violent motion , yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor retreated , but collectively remained in one place . As is customary in those cases , the boats at once separated , each making for some one lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal . In about three minutes ' time , Queequeg ' s harpoon was flung ; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces , and then running away with us like light , steered straight for the heart of the herd . Though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such circumstances , is in no wise unprecedented ; and indeed is almost always more or less anticipated ; yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery . For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal , you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a delirious throb .

Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo , a gigantic , coal - black negro - savage , with a lion - like tread -- an Ahasuerus to behold . Suspended from his ears were two golden hoops , so large that the sailors called them ring - bolts , and would talk of securing the top - sail halyards to them . In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler , lying in a lonely bay on his native coast . And never having been anywhere in the world but in Africa , Nantucket , and the pagan harbors most frequented by whalemen ; and having now led for many years the bold life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what manner of men they shipped ; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues , and erect as a giraffe , moved about the decks in all the pomp of six feet five in his socks . There was a corporeal humility in looking up at him ; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress . Curious to tell , this imperial negro , Ahasuerus Daggoo , was the Squire of little Flask , who looked like a chess - man beside him . As for the residue of the Pequod ' s company , be it said , that at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the mast employed in the American whale fishery , are Americans born , though pretty nearly all the officers are . Herein it is the same with the American whale fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies , and the engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and Railroads . The same , I say , because in all these cases the native American liberally provides the brains , the rest of the world as generously supplying the muscles . No small number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores , where the outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores . In like manner , the Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London , put in at the Shetland Islands , to receive the full complement of their crew . Upon the passage homewards , they drop them there again . How it is , there is no telling , but Islanders seem to make the best whalemen . They were nearly all Islanders in the Pequod , ISOLATOES too , I call such , not acknowledging the common continent of men , but each ISOLATO living on a separate continent of his own . Yet now , federated along one keel , what a set these Isolatoes were ! An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles of the sea , and all the ends of the earth , accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay the world ' s grievances before that bar from which not very many of them ever come back . Black Little Pip -- he never did -- oh , no ! he went before . Poor Alabama boy ! On the grim Pequod ' s forecastle , ye shall ere long see him , beating his tambourine ; prelusive of the eternal time , when sent for , to the great quarter - deck on high , he was bid strike in with angels , and beat his tambourine in glory ; called a coward here , hailed a hero there !

Coffin ?-- Spouter ?-- Rather ominous in that particular connexion , thought I . But it is a common name in Nantucket , they say , and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there . As the light looked so dim , and the place , for the time , looked quiet enough , and the dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt district , and as the swinging sign had a poverty - stricken sort of creak to it , I thought that here was the very spot for cheap lodgings , and the best of pea coffee .

Almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enormous mass dropped into the sea , like Niagara ' s Table - Rock into the whirlpool ; the suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it , to far down her glittering copper ; and all caught their breath , as half swinging -- now over the sailors ' heads , and now over the water -- Daggoo , through a thick mist of spray , was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles , while poor , buried - alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea ! But hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away , when a naked figure with a boarding - sword in his hand , was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks . The next , a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue . One packed rush was made to the side , and every eye counted every ripple , as moment followed moment , and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen . Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside , and pushed a little off from the ship .

" Do with it ? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home ;-- what else ?"

Sunset .

" Broke ," said I --" BROKE , do you mean ?"

" Woo - hoo ! Wa - hee !" screamed the Gay - Header in reply , raising some old war - whoop to the skies ; as every oarsman in the strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading stroke which the eager Indian gave .

" Aye , aye , I thought so . Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship ."

Folding back the counterpane , I stooped over the bed . Though none of the most elegant , it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well . I then glanced round the room ; and besides the bedstead and centre table , could see no other furniture belonging to the place , but a rude shelf , the four walls , and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale . Of things not properly belonging to the room , there was a hammock lashed up , and thrown upon the floor in one corner ; also a large seaman ' s bag , containing the harpooneer ' s wardrobe , no doubt in lieu of a land trunk . Likewise , there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf over the fire - place , and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed .

Heads or Tails .

Bethink yourself also of another thing . When two large , loaded Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks , what do the sailors do ? They do not suspend between them , at the point of coming contact , any merely hard substance , like iron or wood . No , they hold there a large , round wad of tow and cork , enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox - hide . That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow - bars . By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at . But supplementary to this , it has hypothetically occurred to me , that as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them , capable , at will , of distension or contraction ; and as the Sperm Whale , as far as I know , has no such provision in him ; considering , too , the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the surface , and anon swims with it high elevated out of the water ; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope ; considering the unique interior of his head ; it has hypothetically occurred to me , I say , that those mystical lung - celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with the outer air , so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and contraction . If this be so , fancy the irresistibleness of that might , to which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes .

" You said up there , didn ' t you ? and now look yourself , and see where your tongs are pointing . But , perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber ' s hole , cook ; but , no , no , cook , you don ' t get there , except you go the regular way , round by the rigging . It ' s a ticklish business , but must be done , or else it ' s no go . But none of us are in heaven yet . Drop your tongs , cook , and hear my orders . Do ye hear ? Hold your hat in one hand , and clap t ' other a ' top of your heart , when I ' m giving my orders , cook . What ! that your heart , there ?-- that ' s your gizzard ! Aloft ! aloft !-- that ' s it -- now you have it . Hold it there now , and pay attention ."

" On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie , Don ; but -- I crave your courtesy -- may be , you shall soon hear further of all that . Now , gentlemen , in square - sail brigs and three - masted ships , well - nigh as large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far Manilla ; this Lakeman , in the land - locked heart of our America , had yet been nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly connected with the open ocean . For in their interflowing aggregate , those grand fresh - water seas of ours ,-- Erie , and Ontario , and Huron , and Superior , and Michigan ,-- possess an ocean - like expansiveness , with many of the ocean ' s noblest traits ; with many of its rimmed varieties of races and of climes . They contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles , even as the Polynesian waters do ; in large part , are shored by two great contrasting nations , as the Atlantic is ; they furnish long maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East , dotted all round their banks ; here and there are frowned upon by batteries , and by the goat - like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw ; they have heard the fleet thunderings of naval victories ; at intervals , they yield their beaches to wild barbarians , whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams ; for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests , where the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies ; those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey , and silken creatures whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors ; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland , as well as Winnebago villages ; they float alike the full - rigged merchant ship , the armed cruiser of the State , the steamer , and the beech canoe ; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as direful as any that lash the salted wave ; they know what shipwrecks are , for out of sight of land , however inland , they have drowned full many a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew . Thus , gentlemen , though an inlander , Steelkilt was wild - ocean born , and wild - ocean nurtured ; as much of an audacious mariner as any . And for Radney , though in his infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach , to nurse at his maternal sea ; though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific ; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods seaman , fresh from the latitudes of buck - horn handled bowie - knives . Yet was this Nantucketer a man with some good - hearted traits ; and this Lakeman , a mariner , who though a sort of devil indeed , might yet by inflexible firmness , only tempered by that common decency of human recognition which is the meanest slave ' s right ; thus treated , this Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile . At all events , he had proved so thus far ; but Radney was doomed and made mad , and Steelkilt -- but , gentlemen , you shall hear .

Instantly the captain ran forward , and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the cutting - tackles , and at once cast loose the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship .

Another thing . Flask was the last person down at the dinner , and Flask is the first man up . Consider ! For hereby Flask ' s dinner was badly jammed in point of time . Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him ; and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear . If Stubb even , who is but a peg higher than Flask , happens to have but a small appetite , and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast , then Flask must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day ; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck . Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private , that ever since he had arisen to the dignity of an officer , from that moment he had never known what it was to be otherwise than hungry , more or less . For what he ate did not so much relieve his hunger , as keep it immortal in him . Peace and satisfaction , thought Flask , have for ever departed from my stomach . I am an officer ; but , how I wish I could fish a bit of old - fashioned beef in the forecastle , as I used to when I was before the mast . There ' s the fruits of promotion now ; there ' s the vanity of glory : there ' s the insanity of life ! Besides , if it were so that any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask ' s official capacity , all that sailor had to do , in order to obtain ample vengeance , was to go aft at dinner - time , and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky - light , sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab .

Thus the whale - line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils , twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction . All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions ; so that to the timid eye of the landsman , they seem as Indian jugglers , with the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs . Nor can any son of mortal woman , for the first time , seat himself amid those hempen intricacies , and while straining his utmost at the oar , bethink him that at any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted , and all these horrible contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings ; he cannot be thus circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones to quiver in him like a shaken jelly . Yet habit -- strange thing ! what cannot habit accomplish ?-- Gayer sallies , more merry mirth , better jokes , and brighter repartees , you never heard over your mahogany , than you will hear over the half - inch white cedar of the whale - boat , when thus hung in hangman ' s nooses ; and , like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward , the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death , with a halter around every neck , as you may say .

" Ah , my dear fellow , you can ' t fool us that way -- you can ' t fool us . It is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him ."

" WHALE . ... It is more immediately from the Dut . and Ger . WALLEN ; A . S . WALW - IAN , to roll , to wallow ." -- RICHARDSON ' S DICTIONARY

So fare thee well , poor devil of a Sub - Sub , whose commentator I am . Thou belongest to that hopeless , sallow tribe which no wine of this world will ever warm ; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy - strong ; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit , and feel poor - devilish , too ; and grow convivial upon tears ; and say to them bluntly , with full eyes and empty glasses , and in not altogether unpleasant sadness -- Give it up , Sub - Subs ! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world , by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless ! Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye ! But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal - mast with your hearts ; for your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven - storied heavens , and making refugees of long - pampered Gabriel , Michael , and Raphael , against your coming . Here ye strike but splintered hearts together -- there , ye shall strike unsplinterable glasses !

" Do you is all sharks , and by natur wery woracious , yet I zay to you , fellow - critters , dat dat woraciousness --' top dat dam slappin ' ob de tail ! How you tink to hear , spose you keep up such a dam slappin ' and bitin ' dare ?"

Now comes the Baling of the Case . But to comprehend it aright , you must know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated upon .

All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air . But it bade fair to outstrip them ; it flew on and on , as a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the hills .

The Specksynder .

" Mrs . Hussey ," said I , " he ' s ALIVE at all events ; so leave us , if you please , and I will see to this strange affair myself ."

PORTUGUESE SAILOR . How the sea rolls swashing ' gainst the side ! Stand by for reefing , hearties ! the winds are just crossing swords , pell - mell they ' ll go lunging presently .

But there was no time for shuddering , for now the savage went about something that completely fascinated my attention , and convinced me that he must indeed be a heathen . Going to his heavy grego , or wrapall , or dreadnaught , which he had previously hung on a chair , he fumbled in the pockets , and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch on its back , and exactly the colour of a three days ' old Congo baby . Remembering the embalmed head , at first I almost thought that this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner . But seeing that it was not at all limber , and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony , I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol , which indeed it proved to be . For now the savage goes up to the empty fire - place , and removing the papered fire - board , sets up this little hunch - backed image , like a tenpin , between the andirons . The chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty , so that I thought this fire - place made a very appropriate little shrine or chapel for his Congo idol .

"' What are you making there ?' said a shipmate .

Returning from my first morning stroll , I again sallied out upon this special errand . The sky had changed from clear , sunny cold , to driving sleet and mist . Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called bearskin , I fought my way against the stubborn storm . Entering , I found a small scattered congregation of sailors , and sailors ' wives and widows . A muffled silence reigned , only broken at times by the shrieks of the storm . Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from the other , as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable . The chaplain had not yet arrived ; and there these silent islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets , with black borders , masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit . Three of them ran something like the following , but I do not pretend to quote :--

Tashtego stood in the bows . He was full of the fire of the hunt . He hated Pip for a poltroon . Snatching the boat - knife from its sheath , he suspended its sharp edge over the line , and turning towards Stubb , exclaimed interrogatively , " Cut ?" Meantime Pip ' s blue , choked face plainly looked , Do , for God ' s sake ! All passed in a flash . In less than half a minute , this entire thing happened .

CHAPTER 60

" Who - e debel you ?" -- he at last said --" you no speak - e , dam - me , I kill - e ." And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the dark .

Stubb ' s exordium to his crew is given here at large , because he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general , and especially in inculcating the religion of rowing . But you must not suppose from this specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with his congregation . Not at all ; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity . He would say the most terrific things to his crew , in a tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury , and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a spice to the fun , that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without pulling for dear life , and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing . Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself , so loungingly managed his steering - oar , and so broadly gaped -- open - mouthed at times -- that the mere sight of such a yawning commander , by sheer force of contrast , acted like a charm upon the crew . Then again , Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists , whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous , as to put all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them .

TASHTEGO . ( QUIETLY SMOKING ) That ' s a white man ; he calls that fun : humph ! I save my sweat .

" With what ?" shouted I .

The Dart .

It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman , that a most significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod ' s crew ; an event most lamentable ; and which ended in providing the sometimes madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own .

But no more of this blubbering now , we are going a - whaling , and there is plenty of that yet to come . Let us scrape the ice from our frosted feet , and see what sort of a place this " Spouter " may be .

I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia ; expressing the idea very plainly , so that he could take it in . He said no ; only upon one memorable occasion . It was after a great feast given by his father the king , on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o ' clock in the afternoon , and all cooked and eaten that very evening .

But before going further , it is important to mention here , that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance , yet it is seldom done ; and when done , is still less frequently successful , on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as compared with the lance , which in effect become serious drawbacks . As a general thing , therefore , you must first get fast to a whale , before any pitchpoling comes into play .

' Twas not so hard a task . I thought to find one stubborn , at the least ; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels , and they revolve . Or , if you will , like so many ant - hills of powder , they all stand before me ; and I their match . Oh , hard ! that to fire others , the match itself must needs be wasting ! What I ' ve dared , I ' ve willed ; and what I ' ve willed , I ' ll do ! They think me mad -- Starbuck does ; but I ' m demoniac , I am madness maddened ! That wild madness that ' s only calm to comprehend itself ! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered ; and -- Aye ! I lost this leg . I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer . Now , then , be the prophet and the fulfiller one . That ' s more than ye , ye great gods , ever were . I laugh and hoot at ye , ye cricket - players , ye pugilists , ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes ! I will not say as schoolboys do to bullies -- Take some one of your own size ; don ' t pommel ME ! No , ye ' ve knocked me down , and I am up again ; but YE have run and hidden . Come forth from behind your cotton bags ! I have no long gun to reach ye . Come , Ahab ' s compliments to ye ; come and see if ye can swerve me . Swerve me ? ye cannot swerve me , else ye swerve yourselves ! man has ye there . Swerve me ? The path to my fixed purpose is laid with iron rails , whereon my soul is grooved to run . Over unsounded gorges , through the rifled hearts of mountains , under torrents ' beds , unerringly I rush ! Naught ' s an obstacle , naught ' s an angle to the iron way !

" No , no , no ; I wasn ' t aware of that ," said Elijah , slowly and wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg , with the most unaccountable glances .

Thus much being said , attend now , I pray you , to that marvellous and -- in this particular instance -- almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Whale ' s great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped .

" No , cook ; go on , go on ."

" Man overboard !" cried Daggoo , who amid the general consternation first came to his senses . " Swing the bucket this way !" and putting one foot into it , so as the better to secure his slippery hand - hold on the whip itself , the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head , almost before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom . Meantime , there was a terrible tumult . Looking over the side , they saw the before lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea , as if that moment seized with some momentous idea ; whereas it was only the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which he had sunk ." Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg -- that ' s who ye are speaking to , young man . It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted out for the voyage , and supplied with all her needs , including crew . We are part owners and agents . But as I was going to say , if thou wantest to know what whaling is , as thou tellest ye do , I can put ye in a way of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it , past backing out . Clap eye on Captain Ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he has only one leg ."

I will now refer you to Langsdorff ' s Voyages for a little circumstance in point , peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof . Langsdorff , you must know by the way , was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern ' s famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century . Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter :

Meantime , they hauled more and more upon their lines , till close flanking him on both sides , Stubb answered Flask with lance for lance ; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went , while the multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale ' s body , rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled , thirstily drinking at every new gash , as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains that poured from the smitten rock .

" God bless ye , and have ye in His holy keeping , men ," murmured old Bildad , almost incoherently . " I hope ye ' ll have fine weather now , so that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye -- a pleasant sun is all he needs , and ye ' ll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go . Be careful in the hunt , ye mates . Don ' t stave the boats needlessly , ye harpooneers ; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent . within the year . Don ' t forget your prayers , either . Mr . Starbuck , mind that cooper don ' t waste the spare staves . Oh ! the sail - needles are in the green locker ! Don ' t whale it too much a ' Lord ' s days , men ; but don ' t miss a fair chance either , that ' s rejecting Heaven ' s good gifts . Have an eye to the molasses tierce , Mr . Stubb ; it was a little leaky , I thought . If ye touch at the islands , Mr . Flask , beware of fornication . Good - bye , good - bye ! Don ' t keep that cheese too long down in the hold , Mr . Starbuck ; it ' ll spoil . Be careful with the butter -- twenty cents the pound it was , and mind ye , if --"

It was during the more pleasant weather , that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast - head came round .

" Cough be damned ! Pass along that return bucket ."

" Come hither to me -- hither , hither ," said Peleg , with a significance in his eye that almost startled me . " Look ye , lad ; never say that on board the Pequod . Never say it anywhere . Captain Ahab did not name himself . ' Twas a foolish , ignorant whim of his crazy , widowed mother , who died when he was only a twelvemonth old . And yet the old squaw Tistig , at Gayhead , said that the name would somehow prove prophetic . And , perhaps , other fools like her may tell thee the same . I wish to warn thee . It ' s a lie . I know Captain Ahab well ; I ' ve sailed with him as mate years ago ; I know what he is -- a good man -- not a pious , good man , like Bildad , but a swearing good man -- something like me -- only there ' s a good deal more of him . Aye , aye , I know that he was never very jolly ; and I know that on the passage home , he was a little out of his mind for a spell ; but it was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump that brought that about , as any one might see . I know , too , that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale , he ' s been a kind of moody -- desperate moody , and savage sometimes ; but that will all pass off . And once for all , let me tell thee and assure thee , young man , it ' s better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one . So good - bye to thee -- and wrong not Captain Ahab , because he happens to have a wicked name . Besides , my boy , he has a wife -- not three voyages wedded -- a sweet , resigned girl . Think of that ; by that sweet girl that old man has a child : hold ye then there can be any utter , hopeless harm in Ahab ? No , no , my lad ; stricken , blasted , if he be , Ahab has his humanities !"

Then , again , in 1825 , Bernard Germain , Count de Lacepede , a great naturalist , published a scientific systemized whale book , wherein are several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan . All these are not only incorrect , but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale ( that is to say , the Right whale ), even Scoresby , a long experienced man as touching that species , declares not to have its counterpart in nature .

CHAPTER 59

Look now at Stubb ; a man who from his humorous , deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies , was specially qualified to excel in pitchpoling . Look at him ; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the flying boat ; wrapt in fleecy foam , the towing whale is forty feet ahead . Handling the long lance lightly , glancing twice or thrice along its length to see if it be exactly straight , Stubb whistlingly gathers up the coil of the warp in one hand , so as to secure its free end in his grasp , leaving the rest unobstructed . Then holding the lance full before his waistband ' s middle , he levels it at the whale ; when , covering him with it , he steadily depresses the butt - end in his hand , thereby elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm , fifteen feet in the air . He minds you somewhat of a juggler , balancing a long staff on his chin . Next moment with a rapid , nameless impulse , in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming distance , and quivers in the life spot of the whale . Instead of sparkling water , he now spouts red blood .

" On one occasion I saw two of these monsters ( whales ) probably male and female , slowly swimming , one after the other , within less than a stone ' s throw of the shore " ( Terra Del Fuego ), " over which the beech tree extended its branches ." -- DARWIN ' S VOYAGE OF A NATURALIST .

Now having a night , a day , and still another night following before me in New Bedford , ere I could embark for my destined port , it became a matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile . It was a very dubious - looking , nay , a very dark and dismal night , bitingly cold and cheerless . I knew no one in the place . With anxious grapnels I had sounded my pocket , and only brought up a few pieces of silver ,-- So , wherever you go , Ishmael , said I to myself , as I stood in the middle of a dreary street shouldering my bag , and comparing the gloom towards the north with the darkness towards the south -- wherever in your wisdom you may conclude to lodge for the night , my dear Ishmael , be sure to inquire the price , and don ' t be too particular .

Walking the deck with quick , side - lunging strides , Ahab commanded the t ' gallant sails and royals to be set , and every stunsail spread . The best man in the ship must take the helm . Then , with every mast - head manned , the piled - up craft rolled down before the wind . The strange , upheaving , lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows of so many sails , made the buoyant , hovering deck to feel like air beneath the feet ; while still she rushed along , as if two antagonistic influences were struggling in her -- one to mount direct to heaven , the other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal . And had you watched Ahab ' s face that night , you would have thought that in him also two different things were warring . While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck , every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin - tap . On life and death this old man walked . But though the ship so swiftly sped , and though from every eye , like arrows , the eager glances shot , yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night . Every sailor swore he saw it once , but not a second time .

" We have been at great trouble , and peril , and some expense , and is all that to go to the Duke ' s benefit ; we getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters ?"

Be it said , however , that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species . Where one of that sort go down , twenty Right Whales do . This difference in the species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale ; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton ; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free . But there are instances where , after the lapse of many hours or several days , the sunken whale again rises , more buoyant than in life . But the reason of this is obvious . Gases are generated in him ; he swells to a prodigious magnitude ; becomes a sort of animal balloon . A line - of - battle ship could hardly keep him under then . In the Shore Whaling , on soundings , among the Bays of New Zealand , when a Right Whale gives token of sinking , they fasten buoys to him , with plenty of rope ; so that when the body has gone down , they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again .

I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas , something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale - ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there . It may be worth while , therefore , previously to advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman . It is time to set the world right in this matter , by proving such pictures of the whale all wrong .

CHAPTER 70

" May be ; may be . But it ' s made a wise man of me , Flask . D ' ye see Ahab standing there , sideways looking over the stern ? Well , the best thing you can do , Flask , is to let the old man alone ; never speak to him , whatever he says . Halloa ! What ' s that he shouts ? Hark !"

" Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks , the infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over ; he rears his enormous head , and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him ; he rushes at the boats with his head ; they are propelled before him with vast swiftness , and sometimes utterly destroyed . ... It is a matter of great astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so interesting , and , in a commercial point of view , so important an animal ( as the Sperm Whale ) should have been so entirely neglected , or should have excited so little curiosity among the numerous , and many of them competent observers , that of late years , must have possessed the most abundant and the most convenient opportunities of witnessing their habitudes ." -- THOMAS BEALE ' S HISTORY OF THE SPERM WHALE , 1839 .

But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on board , as she did the last day , with a long oil - ladle in one hand , and a still longer whaling lance in the other . Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward . As for Bildad , he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed , and at every fresh arrival , down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper . Every once in a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den , roaring at the men down the hatchways , roaring up to the riggers at the mast - head , and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam .

It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale ' s prodigious head hanging to the Pequod ' s side . But we must let it continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it . For the present other matters press , and the best we can do now for the head , is to pray heaven the tackles may hold .

" But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct , he kept his own counsel ( at least till all was over ) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles of his heart . He was in Radney the chief mate ' s watch ; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than half way to meet his doom , after the scene at the rigging , he insisted , against the express counsel of the captain , upon resuming the head of his watch at night . Upon this , and one or two other circumstances , Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge .

I considered the matter a moment , and then up stairs we went , and I was ushered into a small room , cold as a clam , and furnished , sure enough , with a prodigious bed , almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep abreast .

The hours wore on ;-- Ahab now shut up within his cabin ; anon , pacing the deck , with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect .

" No , sir ; not yet ," said Stubb , emboldened , " I will not tamely be called a dog , sir ."

CHAPTER 17

ALL . The squall ! the squall ! jump , my jollies ! ( THEY SCATTER .)

" Where - away ?"

Secondly : The ship Union , also of Nantucket , was in the year 1807 totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset , but the authentic particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter , though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it .

But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order , a pale man , with a bandaged head , arrested them -- Radney the chief mate . Ever since the blow , he had lain in his berth ; but that morning , hearing the tumult on the deck , he had crept out , and thus far had watched the whole scene . Such was the state of his mouth , that he could hardly speak ; but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the captain dared not attempt , he snatched the rope and advanced to his pinioned foe .

" Dost know nothing at all about whaling , I dare say -- eh ?

Ere long , from his first visit in the air , he withdrew into his cabin . But after that morning , he was every day visible to the crew ; either standing in his pivot - hole , or seated upon an ivory stool he had ; or heavily walking the deck . As the sky grew less gloomy ; indeed , began to grow a little genial , he became still less and less a recluse ; as if , when the ship had sailed from home , nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded . And , by and by , it came to pass , that he was almost continually in the air ; but , as yet , for all that he said , or perceptibly did , on the at last sunny deck , he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast . But the Pequod was only making a passage now ; not regularly cruising ; nearly all whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to , so that there was little or nothing , out of himself , to employ or excite Ahab , now ; and thus chase away , for that one interval , the clouds that layer upon layer were piled upon his brow , as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon .

" I think I remember some such story as you were telling ," said Flask , when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the ship , " but I can ' t remember where ."

" He wants you to take a glass of wine with him ," said the interpreter .

BOOK I . ( FOLIO ), CHAPTER I . ( SPERM WHALE ).-- This whale , among the English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale , and the Physeter whale , and the Anvil Headed whale , is the present Cachalot of the French , and the Pottsfich of the Germans , and the Macrocephalus of the Long Words . He is , without doubt , the largest inhabitant of the globe ; the most formidable of all whales to encounter ; the most majestic in aspect ; and lastly , by far the most valuable in commerce ; he being the only creature from which that valuable substance , spermaceti , is obtained . All his peculiarities will , in many other places , be enlarged upon . It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do . Philologically considered , it is absurd . Some centuries ago , when the Sperm whale was almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality , and when his oil was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish ; in those days spermaceti , it would seem , was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale . It was the idea also , that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses . In those times , also , spermaceti was exceedingly scarce , not being used for light , but only as an ointment and medicament . It was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb . When , as I opine , in the course of time , the true nature of spermaceti became known , its original name was still retained by the dealers ; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity . And so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti was really derived .

For some time past , though at intervals only , the unaccompanied , secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen . But not all of them knew of his existence ; only a few of them , comparatively , had knowingly seen him ; while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him , was small indeed . For , owing to the large number of whale - cruisers ; the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference , many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes , so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch , to encounter a single news - telling sail of any sort ; the inordinate length of each separate voyage ; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home ; all these , with other circumstances , direct and indirect , long obstructed the spread through the whole world - wide whaling - fleet of the special individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick . It was hardly to be doubted , that several vessels reported to have encountered , at such or such a time , or on such or such a meridian , a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity , which whale , after doing great mischief to his assailants , had completely escaped them ; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption , I say , that the whale in question must have been no other than Moby Dick . Yet as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not unfrequent instances of great ferocity , cunning , and malice in the monster attacked ; therefore it was , that those who by accident ignorantly gave battle to Moby Dick ; such hunters , perhaps , for the most part , were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred , more , as it were , to the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large , than to the individual cause . In that way , mostly , the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded .

" Queequeg no care what god made him shark ," said the savage , agonizingly lifting his hand up and down ; " wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god ; but de god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin ."

Wet , drenched through , and shivering cold , despairing of ship or boat , we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on . The mist still spread over the sea , the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat . Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet , hollowing his hand to his ear . We all heard a faint creaking , as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by the storm . The sound came nearer and nearer ; the thick mists were dimly parted by a huge , vague form . Affrighted , we all sprang into the sea as the ship at last loomed into view , bearing right down upon us within a distance of not much more than its length .

Even as it was , I thought something of slipping out of the window , but it was the second floor back . I am no coward , but what to make of this head - peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension . Ignorance is the parent of fear , and being completely nonplussed and confounded about the stranger , I confess I was now as much afraid of him as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of night . In fact , I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then to address him , and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed inexplicable in him .

" No ," said Peleg , " and he hasn ' t been baptized right either , or it would have washed some of that devil ' s blue off his face ."

" A mariner sat in the shrouds one night , The wind was piping free ; Now bright , now dimmed , was the moonlight pale , And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale , As it floundered in the sea ." -- ELIZABETH OAKES SMITH .

The Castaway .

" The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the water - works at London Bridge , and the water roaring in its passage through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood gushing from the whale ' s heart ." -- PALEY ' S THEOLOGY .

With memories like these in him , and , moreover , given to a certain superstitiousness , as has been said ; the courage of this Starbuck which could , nevertheless , still flourish , must indeed have been extreme . But it was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized , and with such terrible experiences and remembrances as he had ; it was not in nature that these things should fail in latently engendering an element in him , which , under suitable circumstances , would break out from its confinement , and burn all his courage up . And brave as he might be , it was that sort of bravery chiefly , visible in some intrepid men , which , while generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas , or winds , or whales , or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world , yet cannot withstand those more terrific , because more spiritual terrors , which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged and mighty man .

Ship and boat diverged ; the cold , damp night breeze blew between ; a screaming gull flew overhead ; the two hulls wildly rolled ; we gave three heavy - hearted cheers , and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic .

" Who ' s Old Thunder ?" said I , again riveted with the insane earnestness of his manner .

" Good night , landlord ," said I , " you may go ."

"' Will you be so good as to bring the priest also , Don ?'

" Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him ; One would think the deep to be hoary ." -- JOB .

CHAPTER 53

Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me , I had noticed that the seamen at the main and mizzen - mast - heads were already drowsy . So that at last all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars , and for every swing that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman . The waves , too , nodded their indolent crests ; and across the wide trance of the sea , east nodded to west , and the sun over all .

Next morning , Monday , after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber , for a block , I settled my own and comrade ' s bill ; using , however , my comrade ' s money . The grinning landlord , as well as the boarders , seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between me and Queequeg -- especially as Peter Coffin ' s cock and bull stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person whom I now companied with .

As he mounted the deck , Ahab abruptly accosted him , without at all heeding what he had in his hand ; but in his broken lingo , the German soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale ; immediately turning the conversation to his lamp - feeder and oil can , with some remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in profound darkness -- his last drop of Bremen oil being gone , and not a single flying - fish yet captured to supply the deficiency ; concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically called a CLEAN one ( that is , an empty one ), well deserving the name of Jungfrau or the Virgin .

The Prophet .

Every whale - ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships , whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed , depends upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans . Thus , most letters never reach their mark ; and many are only received after attaining an age of two or three years or more .

Though many of the whales , as has been said , were in violent motion , yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor retreated , but collectively remained in one place . As is customary in those cases , the boats at once separated , each making for some one lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal . In about three minutes ' time , Queequeg ' s harpoon was flung ; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces , and then running away with us like light , steered straight for the heart of the herd . Though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such circumstances , is in no wise unprecedented ; and indeed is almost always more or less anticipated ; yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery . For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal , you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a delirious throb .

Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo , a gigantic , coal - black negro - savage , with a lion - like tread -- an Ahasuerus to behold . Suspended from his ears were two golden hoops , so large that the sailors called them ring - bolts , and would talk of securing the top - sail halyards to them . In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler , lying in a lonely bay on his native coast . And never having been anywhere in the world but in Africa , Nantucket , and the pagan harbors most frequented by whalemen ; and having now led for many years the bold life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what manner of men they shipped ; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues , and erect as a giraffe , moved about the decks in all the pomp of six feet five in his socks . There was a corporeal humility in looking up at him ; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress . Curious to tell , this imperial negro , Ahasuerus Daggoo , was the Squire of little Flask , who looked like a chess - man beside him . As for the residue of the Pequod ' s company , be it said , that at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the mast employed in the American whale fishery , are Americans born , though pretty nearly all the officers are . Herein it is the same with the American whale fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies , and the engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and Railroads . The same , I say , because in all these cases the native American liberally provides the brains , the rest of the world as generously supplying the muscles . No small number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores , where the outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores . In like manner , the Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London , put in at the Shetland Islands , to receive the full complement of their crew . Upon the passage homewards , they drop them there again . How it is , there is no telling , but Islanders seem to make the best whalemen . They were nearly all Islanders in the Pequod , ISOLATOES too , I call such , not acknowledging the common continent of men , but each ISOLATO living on a separate continent of his own . Yet now , federated along one keel , what a set these Isolatoes were ! An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles of the sea , and all the ends of the earth , accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay the world ' s grievances before that bar from which not very many of them ever come back . Black Little Pip -- he never did -- oh , no ! he went before . Poor Alabama boy ! On the grim Pequod ' s forecastle , ye shall ere long see him , beating his tambourine ; prelusive of the eternal time , when sent for , to the great quarter - deck on high , he was bid strike in with angels , and beat his tambourine in glory ; called a coward here , hailed a hero there !

Coffin ?-- Spouter ?-- Rather ominous in that particular connexion , thought I . But it is a common name in Nantucket , they say , and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there . As the light looked so dim , and the place , for the time , looked quiet enough , and the dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt district , and as the swinging sign had a poverty - stricken sort of creak to it , I thought that here was the very spot for cheap lodgings , and the best of pea coffee .

Almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enormous mass dropped into the sea , like Niagara ' s Table - Rock into the whirlpool ; the suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it , to far down her glittering copper ; and all caught their breath , as half swinging -- now over the sailors ' heads , and now over the water -- Daggoo , through a thick mist of spray , was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles , while poor , buried - alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea ! But hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away , when a naked figure with a boarding - sword in his hand , was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks . The next , a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue . One packed rush was made to the side , and every eye counted every ripple , as moment followed moment , and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen . Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside , and pushed a little off from the ship .

" Do with it ? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home ;-- what else ?"

Sunset .

" Broke ," said I --" BROKE , do you mean ?"

" Woo - hoo ! Wa - hee !" screamed the Gay - Header in reply , raising some old war - whoop to the skies ; as every oarsman in the strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading stroke which the eager Indian gave .

" Aye , aye , I thought so . Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship ."

Folding back the counterpane , I stooped over the bed . Though none of the most elegant , it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well . I then glanced round the room ; and besides the bedstead and centre table , could see no other furniture belonging to the place , but a rude shelf , the four walls , and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale . Of things not properly belonging to the room , there was a hammock lashed up , and thrown upon the floor in one corner ; also a large seaman ' s bag , containing the harpooneer ' s wardrobe , no doubt in lieu of a land trunk . Likewise , there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf over the fire - place , and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed .

Heads or Tails .

Bethink yourself also of another thing . When two large , loaded Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks , what do the sailors do ? They do not suspend between them , at the point of coming contact , any merely hard substance , like iron or wood . No , they hold there a large , round wad of tow and cork , enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox - hide . That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow - bars . By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at . But supplementary to this , it has hypothetically occurred to me , that as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them , capable , at will , of distension or contraction ; and as the Sperm Whale , as far as I know , has no such provision in him ; considering , too , the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the surface , and anon swims with it high elevated out of the water ; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope ; considering the unique interior of his head ; it has hypothetically occurred to me , I say , that those mystical lung - celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with the outer air , so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and contraction . If this be so , fancy the irresistibleness of that might , to which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes .

" You said up there , didn ' t you ? and now look yourself , and see where your tongs are pointing . But , perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber ' s hole , cook ; but , no , no , cook , you don ' t get there , except you go the regular way , round by the rigging . It ' s a ticklish business , but must be done , or else it ' s no go . But none of us are in heaven yet . Drop your tongs , cook , and hear my orders . Do ye hear ? Hold your hat in one hand , and clap t ' other a ' top of your heart , when I ' m giving my orders , cook . What ! that your heart , there ?-- that ' s your gizzard ! Aloft ! aloft !-- that ' s it -- now you have it . Hold it there now , and pay attention ."

" On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie , Don ; but -- I crave your courtesy -- may be , you shall soon hear further of all that . Now , gentlemen , in square - sail brigs and three - masted ships , well - nigh as large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far Manilla ; this Lakeman , in the land - locked heart of our America , had yet been nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly connected with the open ocean . For in their interflowing aggregate , those grand fresh - water seas of ours ,-- Erie , and Ontario , and Huron , and Superior , and Michigan ,-- possess an ocean - like expansiveness , with many of the ocean ' s noblest traits ; with many of its rimmed varieties of races and of climes . They contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles , even as the Polynesian waters do ; in large part , are shored by two great contrasting nations , as the Atlantic is ; they furnish long maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East , dotted all round their banks ; here and there are frowned upon by batteries , and by the goat - like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw ; they have heard the fleet thunderings of naval victories ; at intervals , they yield their beaches to wild barbarians , whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams ; for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests , where the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies ; those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey , and silken creatures whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors ; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland , as well as Winnebago villages ; they float alike the full - rigged merchant ship , the armed cruiser of the State , the steamer , and the beech canoe ; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as direful as any that lash the salted wave ; they know what shipwrecks are , for out of sight of land , however inland , they have drowned full many a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew . Thus , gentlemen , though an inlander , Steelkilt was wild - ocean born , and wild - ocean nurtured ; as much of an audacious mariner as any . And for Radney , though in his infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach , to nurse at his maternal sea ; though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific ; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods seaman , fresh from the latitudes of buck - horn handled bowie - knives . Yet was this Nantucketer a man with some good - hearted traits ; and this Lakeman , a mariner , who though a sort of devil indeed , might yet by inflexible firmness , only tempered by that common decency of human recognition which is the meanest slave ' s right ; thus treated , this Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile . At all events , he had proved so thus far ; but Radney was doomed and made mad , and Steelkilt -- but , gentlemen , you shall hear .

Instantly the captain ran forward , and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the cutting - tackles , and at once cast loose the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship .

Another thing . Flask was the last person down at the dinner , and Flask is the first man up . Consider ! For hereby Flask ' s dinner was badly jammed in point of time . Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him ; and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear . If Stubb even , who is but a peg higher than Flask , happens to have but a small appetite , and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast , then Flask must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day ; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck . Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private , that ever since he had arisen to the dignity of an officer , from that moment he had never known what it was to be otherwise than hungry , more or less . For what he ate did not so much relieve his hunger , as keep it immortal in him . Peace and satisfaction , thought Flask , have for ever departed from my stomach . I am an officer ; but , how I wish I could fish a bit of old - fashioned beef in the forecastle , as I used to when I was before the mast . There ' s the fruits of promotion now ; there ' s the vanity of glory : there ' s the insanity of life ! Besides , if it were so that any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask ' s official capacity , all that sailor had to do , in order to obtain ample vengeance , was to go aft at dinner - time , and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky - light , sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab .

Thus the whale - line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils , twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction . All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions ; so that to the timid eye of the landsman , they seem as Indian jugglers , with the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs . Nor can any son of mortal woman , for the first time , seat himself amid those hempen intricacies , and while straining his utmost at the oar , bethink him that at any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted , and all these horrible contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings ; he cannot be thus circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones to quiver in him like a shaken jelly . Yet habit -- strange thing ! what cannot habit accomplish ?-- Gayer sallies , more merry mirth , better jokes , and brighter repartees , you never heard over your mahogany , than you will hear over the half - inch white cedar of the whale - boat , when thus hung in hangman ' s nooses ; and , like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward , the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death , with a halter around every neck , as you may say .

" Ah , my dear fellow , you can ' t fool us that way -- you can ' t fool us . It is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him ."

" WHALE . ... It is more immediately from the Dut . and Ger . WALLEN ; A . S . WALW - IAN , to roll , to wallow ." -- RICHARDSON ' S DICTIONARY

So fare thee well , poor devil of a Sub - Sub , whose commentator I am . Thou belongest to that hopeless , sallow tribe which no wine of this world will ever warm ; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy - strong ; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit , and feel poor - devilish , too ; and grow convivial upon tears ; and say to them bluntly , with full eyes and empty glasses , and in not altogether unpleasant sadness -- Give it up , Sub - Subs ! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world , by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless ! Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye ! But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal - mast with your hearts ; for your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven - storied heavens , and making refugees of long - pampered Gabriel , Michael , and Raphael , against your coming . Here ye strike but splintered hearts together -- there , ye shall strike unsplinterable glasses !

" Do you is all sharks , and by natur wery woracious , yet I zay to you , fellow - critters , dat dat woraciousness --' top dat dam slappin ' ob de tail ! How you tink to hear , spose you keep up such a dam slappin ' and bitin ' dare ?"

Now comes the Baling of the Case . But to comprehend it aright , you must know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated upon .

All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air . But it bade fair to outstrip them ; it flew on and on , as a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the hills .

The Specksynder .

" Mrs . Hussey ," said I , " he ' s ALIVE at all events ; so leave us , if you please , and I will see to this strange affair myself ."

PORTUGUESE SAILOR . How the sea rolls swashing ' gainst the side ! Stand by for reefing , hearties ! the winds are just crossing swords , pell - mell they ' ll go lunging presently .

But there was no time for shuddering , for now the savage went about something that completely fascinated my attention , and convinced me that he must indeed be a heathen . Going to his heavy grego , or wrapall , or dreadnaught , which he had previously hung on a chair , he fumbled in the pockets , and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch on its back , and exactly the colour of a three days ' old Congo baby . Remembering the embalmed head , at first I almost thought that this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner . But seeing that it was not at all limber , and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony , I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol , which indeed it proved to be . For now the savage goes up to the empty fire - place , and removing the papered fire - board , sets up this little hunch - backed image , like a tenpin , between the andirons . The chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty , so that I thought this fire - place made a very appropriate little shrine or chapel for his Congo idol .

"' What are you making there ?' said a shipmate .

Returning from my first morning stroll , I again sallied out upon this special errand . The sky had changed from clear , sunny cold , to driving sleet and mist . Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called bearskin , I fought my way against the stubborn storm . Entering , I found a small scattered congregation of sailors , and sailors ' wives and widows . A muffled silence reigned , only broken at times by the shrieks of the storm . Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from the other , as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable . The chaplain had not yet arrived ; and there these silent islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets , with black borders , masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit . Three of them ran something like the following , but I do not pretend to quote :--

Tashtego stood in the bows . He was full of the fire of the hunt . He hated Pip for a poltroon . Snatching the boat - knife from its sheath , he suspended its sharp edge over the line , and turning towards Stubb , exclaimed interrogatively , " Cut ?" Meantime Pip ' s blue , choked face plainly looked , Do , for God ' s sake ! All passed in a flash . In less than half a minute , this entire thing happened .

CHAPTER 60

" Who - e debel you ?" -- he at last said --" you no speak - e , dam - me , I kill - e ." And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the dark .

Stubb ' s exordium to his crew is given here at large , because he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general , and especially in inculcating the religion of rowing . But you must not suppose from this specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with his congregation . Not at all ; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity . He would say the most terrific things to his crew , in a tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury , and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a spice to the fun , that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without pulling for dear life , and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing . Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself , so loungingly managed his steering - oar , and so broadly gaped -- open - mouthed at times -- that the mere sight of such a yawning commander , by sheer force of contrast , acted like a charm upon the crew . Then again , Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists , whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous , as to put all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them .

TASHTEGO . ( QUIETLY SMOKING ) That ' s a white man ; he calls that fun : humph ! I save my sweat .

" With what ?" shouted I .

The Dart .

It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman , that a most significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod ' s crew ; an event most lamentable ; and which ended in providing the sometimes madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own .

But no more of this blubbering now , we are going a - whaling , and there is plenty of that yet to come . Let us scrape the ice from our frosted feet , and see what sort of a place this " Spouter " may be .

I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia ; expressing the idea very plainly , so that he could take it in . He said no ; only upon one memorable occasion . It was after a great feast given by his father the king , on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o ' clock in the afternoon , and all cooked and eaten that very evening .

But before going further , it is important to mention here , that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance , yet it is seldom done ; and when done , is still less frequently successful , on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as compared with the lance , which in effect become serious drawbacks . As a general thing , therefore , you must first get fast to a whale , before any pitchpoling comes into play .

' Twas not so hard a task . I thought to find one stubborn , at the least ; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels , and they revolve . Or , if you will , like so many ant - hills of powder , they all stand before me ; and I their match . Oh , hard ! that to fire others , the match itself must needs be wasting ! What I ' ve dared , I ' ve willed ; and what I ' ve willed , I ' ll do ! They think me mad -- Starbuck does ; but I ' m demoniac , I am madness maddened ! That wild madness that ' s only calm to comprehend itself ! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered ; and -- Aye ! I lost this leg . I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer . Now , then , be the prophet and the fulfiller one . That ' s more than ye , ye great gods , ever were . I laugh and hoot at ye , ye cricket - players , ye pugilists , ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes ! I will not say as schoolboys do to bullies -- Take some one of your own size ; don ' t pommel ME ! No , ye ' ve knocked me down , and I am up again ; but YE have run and hidden . Come forth from behind your cotton bags ! I have no long gun to reach ye . Come , Ahab ' s compliments to ye ; come and see if ye can swerve me . Swerve me ? ye cannot swerve me , else ye swerve yourselves ! man has ye there . Swerve me ? The path to my fixed purpose is laid with iron rails , whereon my soul is grooved to run . Over unsounded gorges , through the rifled hearts of mountains , under torrents ' beds , unerringly I rush ! Naught ' s an obstacle , naught ' s an angle to the iron way !

" No , no , no ; I wasn ' t aware of that ," said Elijah , slowly and wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg , with the most unaccountable glances .

Thus much being said , attend now , I pray you , to that marvellous and -- in this particular instance -- almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Whale ' s great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped .

" No , cook ; go on , go on ."

" Man overboard !" cried Daggoo , who amid the general consternation first came to his senses . " Swing the bucket this way !" and putting one foot into it , so as the better to secure his slippery hand - hold on the whip itself , the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head , almost before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom . Meantime , there was a terrible tumult . Looking over the side , they saw the before lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea , as if that moment seized with some momentous idea ; whereas it was only the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which he had sunk ." Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg -- that ' s who ye are speaking to , young man . It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted out for the voyage , and supplied with all her needs , including crew . We are part owners and agents . But as I was going to say , if thou wantest to know what whaling is , as thou tellest ye do , I can put ye in a way of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it , past backing out . Clap eye on Captain Ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he has only one leg ."

I will now refer you to Langsdorff ' s Voyages for a little circumstance in point , peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof . Langsdorff , you must know by the way , was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern ' s famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century . Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter :

Meantime , they hauled more and more upon their lines , till close flanking him on both sides , Stubb answered Flask with lance for lance ; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went , while the multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale ' s body , rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled , thirstily drinking at every new gash , as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains that poured from the smitten rock .

" God bless ye , and have ye in His holy keeping , men ," murmured old Bildad , almost incoherently . " I hope ye ' ll have fine weather now , so that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye -- a pleasant sun is all he needs , and ye ' ll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go . Be careful in the hunt , ye mates . Don ' t stave the boats needlessly , ye harpooneers ; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent . within the year . Don ' t forget your prayers , either . Mr . Starbuck , mind that cooper don ' t waste the spare staves . Oh ! the sail - needles are in the green locker ! Don ' t whale it too much a ' Lord ' s days , men ; but don ' t miss a fair chance either , that ' s rejecting Heaven ' s good gifts . Have an eye to the molasses tierce , Mr . Stubb ; it was a little leaky , I thought . If ye touch at the islands , Mr . Flask , beware of fornication . Good - bye , good - bye ! Don ' t keep that cheese too long down in the hold , Mr . Starbuck ; it ' ll spoil . Be careful with the butter -- twenty cents the pound it was , and mind ye , if --"

It was during the more pleasant weather , that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast - head came round .

" Cough be damned ! Pass along that return bucket ."

" Come hither to me -- hither , hither ," said Peleg , with a significance in his eye that almost startled me . " Look ye , lad ; never say that on board the Pequod . Never say it anywhere . Captain Ahab did not name himself . ' Twas a foolish , ignorant whim of his crazy , widowed mother , who died when he was only a twelvemonth old . And yet the old squaw Tistig , at Gayhead , said that the name would somehow prove prophetic . And , perhaps , other fools like her may tell thee the same . I wish to warn thee . It ' s a lie . I know Captain Ahab well ; I ' ve sailed with him as mate years ago ; I know what he is -- a good man -- not a pious , good man , like Bildad , but a swearing good man -- something like me -- only there ' s a good deal more of him . Aye , aye , I know that he was never very jolly ; and I know that on the passage home , he was a little out of his mind for a spell ; but it was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump that brought that about , as any one might see . I know , too , that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale , he ' s been a kind of moody -- desperate moody , and savage sometimes ; but that will all pass off . And once for all , let me tell thee and assure thee , young man , it ' s better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one . So good - bye to thee -- and wrong not Captain Ahab , because he happens to have a wicked name . Besides , my boy , he has a wife -- not three voyages wedded -- a sweet , resigned girl . Think of that ; by that sweet girl that old man has a child : hold ye then there can be any utter , hopeless harm in Ahab ? No , no , my lad ; stricken , blasted , if he be , Ahab has his humanities !"

Then , again , in 1825 , Bernard Germain , Count de Lacepede , a great naturalist , published a scientific systemized whale book , wherein are several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan . All these are not only incorrect , but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale ( that is to say , the Right whale ), even Scoresby , a long experienced man as touching that species , declares not to have its counterpart in nature .

CHAPTER 59

Look now at Stubb ; a man who from his humorous , deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies , was specially qualified to excel in pitchpoling . Look at him ; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the flying boat ; wrapt in fleecy foam , the towing whale is forty feet ahead . Handling the long lance lightly , glancing twice or thrice along its length to see if it be exactly straight , Stubb whistlingly gathers up the coil of the warp in one hand , so as to secure its free end in his grasp , leaving the rest unobstructed . Then holding the lance full before his waistband ' s middle , he levels it at the whale ; when , covering him with it , he steadily depresses the butt - end in his hand , thereby elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm , fifteen feet in the air . He minds you somewhat of a juggler , balancing a long staff on his chin . Next moment with a rapid , nameless impulse , in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming distance , and quivers in the life spot of the whale . Instead of sparkling water , he now spouts red blood .

" On one occasion I saw two of these monsters ( whales ) probably male and female , slowly swimming , one after the other , within less than a stone ' s throw of the shore " ( Terra Del Fuego ), " over which the beech tree extended its branches ." -- DARWIN ' S VOYAGE OF A NATURALIST .

Now having a night , a day , and still another night following before me in New Bedford , ere I could embark for my destined port , it became a matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile . It was a very dubious - looking , nay , a very dark and dismal night , bitingly cold and cheerless . I knew no one in the place . With anxious grapnels I had sounded my pocket , and only brought up a few pieces of silver ,-- So , wherever you go , Ishmael , said I to myself , as I stood in the middle of a dreary street shouldering my bag , and comparing the gloom towards the north with the darkness towards the south -- wherever in your wisdom you may conclude to lodge for the night , my dear Ishmael , be sure to inquire the price , and don ' t be too particular .

Walking the deck with quick , side - lunging strides , Ahab commanded the t ' gallant sails and royals to be set , and every stunsail spread . The best man in the ship must take the helm . Then , with every mast - head manned , the piled - up craft rolled down before the wind . The strange , upheaving , lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows of so many sails , made the buoyant , hovering deck to feel like air beneath the feet ; while still she rushed along , as if two antagonistic influences were struggling in her -- one to mount direct to heaven , the other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal . And had you watched Ahab ' s face that night , you would have thought that in him also two different things were warring . While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck , every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin - tap . On life and death this old man walked . But though the ship so swiftly sped , and though from every eye , like arrows , the eager glances shot , yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night . Every sailor swore he saw it once , but not a second time .

" We have been at great trouble , and peril , and some expense , and is all that to go to the Duke ' s benefit ; we getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters ?"

Be it said , however , that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species . Where one of that sort go down , twenty Right Whales do . This difference in the species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale ; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton ; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free . But there are instances where , after the lapse of many hours or several days , the sunken whale again rises , more buoyant than in life . But the reason of this is obvious . Gases are generated in him ; he swells to a prodigious magnitude ; becomes a sort of animal balloon . A line - of - battle ship could hardly keep him under then . In the Shore Whaling , on soundings , among the Bays of New Zealand , when a Right Whale gives token of sinking , they fasten buoys to him , with plenty of rope ; so that when the body has gone down , they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again .

I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas , something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale - ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there . It may be worth while , therefore , previously to advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman . It is time to set the world right in this matter , by proving such pictures of the whale all wrong .

CHAPTER 70

" May be ; may be . But it ' s made a wise man of me , Flask . D ' ye see Ahab standing there , sideways looking over the stern ? Well , the best thing you can do , Flask , is to let the old man alone ; never speak to him , whatever he says . Halloa ! What ' s that he shouts ? Hark !"

" Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks , the infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over ; he rears his enormous head , and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him ; he rushes at the boats with his head ; they are propelled before him with vast swiftness , and sometimes utterly destroyed . ... It is a matter of great astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so interesting , and , in a commercial point of view , so important an animal ( as the Sperm Whale ) should have been so entirely neglected , or should have excited so little curiosity among the numerous , and many of them competent observers , that of late years , must have possessed the most abundant and the most convenient opportunities of witnessing their habitudes ." -- THOMAS BEALE ' S HISTORY OF THE SPERM WHALE , 1839 .

But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on board , as she did the last day , with a long oil - ladle in one hand , and a still longer whaling lance in the other . Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward . As for Bildad , he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed , and at every fresh arrival , down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper . Every once in a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den , roaring at the men down the hatchways , roaring up to the riggers at the mast - head , and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam .

It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale ' s prodigious head hanging to the Pequod ' s side . But we must let it continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it . For the present other matters press , and the best we can do now for the head , is to pray heaven the tackles may hold .

" But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct , he kept his own counsel ( at least till all was over ) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles of his heart . He was in Radney the chief mate ' s watch ; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than half way to meet his doom , after the scene at the rigging , he insisted , against the express counsel of the captain , upon resuming the head of his watch at night . Upon this , and one or two other circumstances , Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge .

I considered the matter a moment , and then up stairs we went , and I was ushered into a small room , cold as a clam , and furnished , sure enough , with a prodigious bed , almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep abreast .

The hours wore on ;-- Ahab now shut up within his cabin ; anon , pacing the deck , with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect .

" No , sir ; not yet ," said Stubb , emboldened , " I will not tamely be called a dog , sir ."

CHAPTER 17

ALL . The squall ! the squall ! jump , my jollies ! ( THEY SCATTER .)

" Where - away ?"

Secondly : The ship Union , also of Nantucket , was in the year 1807 totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset , but the authentic particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter , though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it .

But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order , a pale man , with a bandaged head , arrested them -- Radney the chief mate . Ever since the blow , he had lain in his berth ; but that morning , hearing the tumult on the deck , he had crept out , and thus far had watched the whole scene . Such was the state of his mouth , that he could hardly speak ; but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the captain dared not attempt , he snatched the rope and advanced to his pinioned foe .

" Dost know nothing at all about whaling , I dare say -- eh ?

Ere long , from his first visit in the air , he withdrew into his cabin . But after that morning , he was every day visible to the crew ; either standing in his pivot - hole , or seated upon an ivory stool he had ; or heavily walking the deck . As the sky grew less gloomy ; indeed , began to grow a little genial , he became still less and less a recluse ; as if , when the ship had sailed from home , nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded . And , by and by , it came to pass , that he was almost continually in the air ; but , as yet , for all that he said , or perceptibly did , on the at last sunny deck , he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast . But the Pequod was only making a passage now ; not regularly cruising ; nearly all whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to , so that there was little or nothing , out of himself , to employ or excite Ahab , now ; and thus chase away , for that one interval , the clouds that layer upon layer were piled upon his brow , as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon .

" I think I remember some such story as you were telling ," said Flask , when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the ship , " but I can ' t remember where ."

" He wants you to take a glass of wine with him ," said the interpreter .

BOOK I . ( FOLIO ), CHAPTER I . ( SPERM WHALE ).-- This whale , among the English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale , and the Physeter whale , and the Anvil Headed whale , is the present Cachalot of the French , and the Pottsfich of the Germans , and the Macrocephalus of the Long Words . He is , without doubt , the largest inhabitant of the globe ; the most formidable of all whales to encounter ; the most majestic in aspect ; and lastly , by far the most valuable in commerce ; he being the only creature from which that valuable substance , spermaceti , is obtained . All his peculiarities will , in many other places , be enlarged upon . It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do . Philologically considered , it is absurd . Some centuries ago , when the Sperm whale was almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality , and when his oil was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish ; in those days spermaceti , it would seem , was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale . It was the idea also , that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses . In those times , also , spermaceti was exceedingly scarce , not being used for light , but only as an ointment and medicament . It was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb . When , as I opine , in the course of time , the true nature of spermaceti became known , its original name was still retained by the dealers ; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity . And so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti was really derived .

For some time past , though at intervals only , the unaccompanied , secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen . But not all of them knew of his existence ; only a few of them , comparatively , had knowingly seen him ; while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him , was small indeed . For , owing to the large number of whale - cruisers ; the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference , many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes , so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch , to encounter a single news - telling sail of any sort ; the inordinate length of each separate voyage ; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home ; all these , with other circumstances , direct and indirect , long obstructed the spread through the whole world - wide whaling - fleet of the special individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick . It was hardly to be doubted , that several vessels reported to have encountered , at such or such a time , or on such or such a meridian , a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity , which whale , after doing great mischief to his assailants , had completely escaped them ; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption , I say , that the whale in question must have been no other than Moby Dick . Yet as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not unfrequent instances of great ferocity , cunning , and malice in the monster attacked ; therefore it was , that those who by accident ignorantly gave battle to Moby Dick ; such hunters , perhaps , for the most part , were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred , more , as it were , to the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large , than to the individual cause . In that way , mostly , the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded .

" Queequeg no care what god made him shark ," said the savage , agonizingly lifting his hand up and down ; " wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god ; but de god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin ."

Wet , drenched through , and shivering cold , despairing of ship or boat , we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on . The mist still spread over the sea , the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat . Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet , hollowing his hand to his ear . We all heard a faint creaking , as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by the storm . The sound came nearer and nearer ; the thick mists were dimly parted by a huge , vague form . Affrighted , we all sprang into the sea as the ship at last loomed into view , bearing right down upon us within a distance of not much more than its length .

Even as it was , I thought something of slipping out of the window , but it was the second floor back . I am no coward , but what to make of this head - peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension . Ignorance is the parent of fear , and being completely nonplussed and confounded about the stranger , I confess I was now as much afraid of him as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of night . In fact , I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then to address him , and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed inexplicable in him .

" No ," said Peleg , " and he hasn ' t been baptized right either , or it would have washed some of that devil ' s blue off his face ."

" A mariner sat in the shrouds one night , The wind was piping free ; Now bright , now dimmed , was the moonlight pale , And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale , As it floundered in the sea ." -- ELIZABETH OAKES SMITH .

The Castaway .

" The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the water - works at London Bridge , and the water roaring in its passage through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood gushing from the whale ' s heart ." -- PALEY ' S THEOLOGY .

With memories like these in him , and , moreover , given to a certain superstitiousness , as has been said ; the courage of this Starbuck which could , nevertheless , still flourish , must indeed have been extreme . But it was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized , and with such terrible experiences and remembrances as he had ; it was not in nature that these things should fail in latently engendering an element in him , which , under suitable circumstances , would break out from its confinement , and burn all his courage up . And brave as he might be , it was that sort of bravery chiefly , visible in some intrepid men , which , while generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas , or winds , or whales , or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world , yet cannot withstand those more terrific , because more spiritual terrors , which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged and mighty man .

Ship and boat diverged ; the cold , damp night breeze blew between ; a screaming gull flew overhead ; the two hulls wildly rolled ; we gave three heavy - hearted cheers , and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic .

" Who ' s Old Thunder ?" said I , again riveted with the insane earnestness of his manner .

" Good night , landlord ," said I , " you may go ."

"' Will you be so good as to bring the priest also , Don ?'

" Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him ; One would think the deep to be hoary ." -- JOB .

CHAPTER 53

Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me , I had noticed that the seamen at the main and mizzen - mast - heads were already drowsy . So that at last all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars , and for every swing that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman . The waves , too , nodded their indolent crests ; and across the wide trance of the sea , east nodded to west , and the sun over all .

Next morning , Monday , after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber , for a block , I settled my own and comrade ' s bill ; using , however , my comrade ' s money . The grinning landlord , as well as the boarders , seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between me and Queequeg -- especially as Peter Coffin ' s cock and bull stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person whom I now companied with .

As he mounted the deck , Ahab abruptly accosted him , without at all heeding what he had in his hand ; but in his broken lingo , the German soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale ; immediately turning the conversation to his lamp - feeder and oil can , with some remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in profound darkness -- his last drop of Bremen oil being gone , and not a single flying - fish yet captured to supply the deficiency ; concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically called a CLEAN one ( that is , an empty one ), well deserving the name of Jungfrau or the Virgin .

The Prophet .

Every whale - ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships , whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed , depends upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans . Thus , most letters never reach their mark ; and many are only received after attaining an age of two or three years or more .

Though many of the whales , as has been said , were in violent motion , yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor retreated , but collectively remained in one place . As is customary in those cases , the boats at once separated , each making for some one lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal . In about three minutes ' time , Queequeg ' s harpoon was flung ; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces , and then running away with us like light , steered straight for the heart of the herd . Though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such circumstances , is in no wise unprecedented ; and indeed is almost always more or less anticipated ; yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery . For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal , you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a delirious throb .

Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo , a gigantic , coal - black negro - savage , with a lion - like tread -- an Ahasuerus to behold . Suspended from his ears were two golden hoops , so large that the sailors called them ring - bolts , and would talk of securing the top - sail halyards to them . In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler , lying in a lonely bay on his native coast . And never having been anywhere in the world but in Africa , Nantucket , and the pagan harbors most frequented by whalemen ; and having now led for many years the bold life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what manner of men they shipped ; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues , and erect as a giraffe , moved about the decks in all the pomp of six feet five in his socks . There was a corporeal humility in looking up at him ; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress . Curious to tell , this imperial negro , Ahasuerus Daggoo , was the Squire of little Flask , who looked like a chess - man beside him . As for the residue of the Pequod ' s company , be it said , that at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the mast employed in the American whale fishery , are Americans born , though pretty nearly all the officers are . Herein it is the same with the American whale fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies , and the engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and Railroads . The same , I say , because in all these cases the native American liberally provides the brains , the rest of the world as generously supplying the muscles . No small number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores , where the outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores . In like manner , the Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London , put in at the Shetland Islands , to receive the full complement of their crew . Upon the passage homewards , they drop them there again . How it is , there is no telling , but Islanders seem to make the best whalemen . They were nearly all Islanders in the Pequod , ISOLATOES too , I call such , not acknowledging the common continent of men , but each ISOLATO living on a separate continent of his own . Yet now , federated along one keel , what a set these Isolatoes were ! An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles of the sea , and all the ends of the earth , accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay the world ' s grievances before that bar from which not very many of them ever come back . Black Little Pip -- he never did -- oh , no ! he went before . Poor Alabama boy ! On the grim Pequod ' s forecastle , ye shall ere long see him , beating his tambourine ; prelusive of the eternal time , when sent for , to the great quarter - deck on high , he was bid strike in with angels , and beat his tambourine in glory ; called a coward here , hailed a hero there !

Coffin ?-- Spouter ?-- Rather ominous in that particular connexion , thought I . But it is a common name in Nantucket , they say , and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there . As the light looked so dim , and the place , for the time , looked quiet enough , and the dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt district , and as the swinging sign had a poverty - stricken sort of creak to it , I thought that here was the very spot for cheap lodgings , and the best of pea coffee .

Almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enormous mass dropped into the sea , like Niagara ' s Table - Rock into the whirlpool ; the suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it , to far down her glittering copper ; and all caught their breath , as half swinging -- now over the sailors ' heads , and now over the water -- Daggoo , through a thick mist of spray , was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles , while poor , buried - alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea ! But hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away , when a naked figure with a boarding - sword in his hand , was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks . The next , a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue . One packed rush was made to the side , and every eye counted every ripple , as moment followed moment , and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen . Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside , and pushed a little off from the ship .

" Do with it ? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home ;-- what else ?"

Sunset .

" Broke ," said I --" BROKE , do you mean ?"

" Woo - hoo ! Wa - hee !" screamed the Gay - Header in reply , raising some old war - whoop to the skies ; as every oarsman in the strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading stroke which the eager Indian gave .

" Aye , aye , I thought so . Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship ."

Folding back the counterpane , I stooped over the bed . Though none of the most elegant , it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well . I then glanced round the room ; and besides the bedstead and centre table , could see no other furniture belonging to the place , but a rude shelf , the four walls , and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale . Of things not properly belonging to the room , there was a hammock lashed up , and thrown upon the floor in one corner ; also a large seaman ' s bag , containing the harpooneer ' s wardrobe , no doubt in lieu of a land trunk . Likewise , there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf over the fire - place , and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed .

Heads or Tails .

Bethink yourself also of another thing . When two large , loaded Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks , what do the sailors do ? They do not suspend between them , at the point of coming contact , any merely hard substance , like iron or wood . No , they hold there a large , round wad of tow and cork , enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox - hide . That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow - bars . By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at . But supplementary to this , it has hypothetically occurred to me , that as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them , capable , at will , of distension or contraction ; and as the Sperm Whale , as far as I know , has no such provision in him ; considering , too , the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the surface , and anon swims with it high elevated out of the water ; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope ; considering the unique interior of his head ; it has hypothetically occurred to me , I say , that those mystical lung - celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with the outer air , so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and contraction . If this be so , fancy the irresistibleness of that might , to which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes .

" You said up there , didn ' t you ? and now look yourself , and see where your tongs are pointing . But , perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber ' s hole , cook ; but , no , no , cook , you don ' t get there , except you go the regular way , round by the rigging . It ' s a ticklish business , but must be done , or else it ' s no go . But none of us are in heaven yet . Drop your tongs , cook , and hear my orders . Do ye hear ? Hold your hat in one hand , and clap t ' other a ' top of your heart , when I ' m giving my orders , cook . What ! that your heart , there ?-- that ' s your gizzard ! Aloft ! aloft !-- that ' s it -- now you have it . Hold it there now , and pay attention ."

" On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie , Don ; but -- I crave your courtesy -- may be , you shall soon hear further of all that . Now , gentlemen , in square - sail brigs and three - masted ships , well - nigh as large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far Manilla ; this Lakeman , in the land - locked heart of our America , had yet been nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly connected with the open ocean . For in their interflowing aggregate , those grand fresh - water seas of ours ,-- Erie , and Ontario , and Huron , and Superior , and Michigan ,-- possess an ocean - like expansiveness , with many of the ocean ' s noblest traits ; with many of its rimmed varieties of races and of climes . They contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles , even as the Polynesian waters do ; in large part , are shored by two great contrasting nations , as the Atlantic is ; they furnish long maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East , dotted all round their banks ; here and there are frowned upon by batteries , and by the goat - like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw ; they have heard the fleet thunderings of naval victories ; at intervals , they yield their beaches to wild barbarians , whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams ; for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests , where the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies ; those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey , and silken creatures whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors ; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland , as well as Winnebago villages ; they float alike the full - rigged merchant ship , the armed cruiser of the State , the steamer , and the beech canoe ; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as direful as any that lash the salted wave ; they know what shipwrecks are , for out of sight of land , however inland , they have drowned full many a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew . Thus , gentlemen , though an inlander , Steelkilt was wild - ocean born , and wild - ocean nurtured ; as much of an audacious mariner as any . And for Radney , though in his infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach , to nurse at his maternal sea ; though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific ; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods seaman , fresh from the latitudes of buck - horn handled bowie - knives . Yet was this Nantucketer a man with some good - hearted traits ; and this Lakeman , a mariner , who though a sort of devil indeed , might yet by inflexible firmness , only tempered by that common decency of human recognition which is the meanest slave ' s right ; thus treated , this Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile . At all events , he had proved so thus far ; but Radney was doomed and made mad , and Steelkilt -- but , gentlemen , you shall hear .

Instantly the captain ran forward , and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the cutting - tackles , and at once cast loose the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship .

Another thing . Flask was the last person down at the dinner , and Flask is the first man up . Consider ! For hereby Flask ' s dinner was badly jammed in point of time . Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him ; and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear . If Stubb even , who is but a peg higher than Flask , happens to have but a small appetite , and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast , then Flask must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day ; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck . Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private , that ever since he had arisen to the dignity of an officer , from that moment he had never known what it was to be otherwise than hungry , more or less . For what he ate did not so much relieve his hunger , as keep it immortal in him . Peace and satisfaction , thought Flask , have for ever departed from my stomach . I am an officer ; but , how I wish I could fish a bit of old - fashioned beef in the forecastle , as I used to when I was before the mast . There ' s the fruits of promotion now ; there ' s the vanity of glory : there ' s the insanity of life ! Besides , if it were so that any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask ' s official capacity , all that sailor had to do , in order to obtain ample vengeance , was to go aft at dinner - time , and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky - light , sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab .

Thus the whale - line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils , twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction . All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions ; so that to the timid eye of the landsman , they seem as Indian jugglers , with the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs . Nor can any son of mortal woman , for the first time , seat himself amid those hempen intricacies , and while straining his utmost at the oar , bethink him that at any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted , and all these horrible contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings ; he cannot be thus circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones to quiver in him like a shaken jelly . Yet habit -- strange thing ! what cannot habit accomplish ?-- Gayer sallies , more merry mirth , better jokes , and brighter repartees , you never heard over your mahogany , than you will hear over the half - inch white cedar of the whale - boat , when thus hung in hangman ' s nooses ; and , like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward , the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death , with a halter around every neck , as you may say .

" Ah , my dear fellow , you can ' t fool us that way -- you can ' t fool us . It is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him ."

" WHALE . ... It is more immediately from the Dut . and Ger . WALLEN ; A . S . WALW - IAN , to roll , to wallow ." -- RICHARDSON ' S DICTIONARY

So fare thee well , poor devil of a Sub - Sub , whose commentator I am . Thou belongest to that hopeless , sallow tribe which no wine of this world will ever warm ; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy - strong ; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit , and feel poor - devilish , too ; and grow convivial upon tears ; and say to them bluntly , with full eyes and empty glasses , and in not altogether unpleasant sadness -- Give it up , Sub - Subs ! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world , by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless ! Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye ! But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal - mast with your hearts ; for your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven - storied heavens , and making refugees of long - pampered Gabriel , Michael , and Raphael , against your coming . Here ye strike but splintered hearts together -- there , ye shall strike unsplinterable glasses !

" Do you is all sharks , and by natur wery woracious , yet I zay to you , fellow - critters , dat dat woraciousness --' top dat dam slappin ' ob de tail ! How you tink to hear , spose you keep up such a dam slappin ' and bitin ' dare ?"

Now comes the Baling of the Case . But to comprehend it aright , you must know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated upon .

All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air . But it bade fair to outstrip them ; it flew on and on , as a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the hills .

The Specksynder .

" Mrs . Hussey ," said I , " he ' s ALIVE at all events ; so leave us , if you please , and I will see to this strange affair myself ."

PORTUGUESE SAILOR . How the sea rolls swashing ' gainst the side ! Stand by for reefing , hearties ! the winds are just crossing swords , pell - mell they ' ll go lunging presently .

But there was no time for shuddering , for now the savage went about something that completely fascinated my attention , and convinced me that he must indeed be a heathen . Going to his heavy grego , or wrapall , or dreadnaught , which he had previously hung on a chair , he fumbled in the pockets , and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch on its back , and exactly the colour of a three days ' old Congo baby . Remembering the embalmed head , at first I almost thought that this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner . But seeing that it was not at all limber , and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony , I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol , which indeed it proved to be . For now the savage goes up to the empty fire - place , and removing the papered fire - board , sets up this little hunch - backed image , like a tenpin , between the andirons . The chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty , so that I thought this fire - place made a very appropriate little shrine or chapel for his Congo idol .

"' What are you making there ?' said a shipmate .

Returning from my first morning stroll , I again sallied out upon this special errand . The sky had changed from clear , sunny cold , to driving sleet and mist . Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called bearskin , I fought my way against the stubborn storm . Entering , I found a small scattered congregation of sailors , and sailors ' wives and widows . A muffled silence reigned , only broken at times by the shrieks of the storm . Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from the other , as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable . The chaplain had not yet arrived ; and there these silent islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets , with black borders , masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit . Three of them ran something like the following , but I do not pretend to quote :--

Tashtego stood in the bows . He was full of the fire of the hunt . He hated Pip for a poltroon . Snatching the boat - knife from its sheath , he suspended its sharp edge over the line , and turning towards Stubb , exclaimed interrogatively , " Cut ?" Meantime Pip ' s blue , choked face plainly looked , Do , for God ' s sake ! All passed in a flash . In less than half a minute , this entire thing happened .

CHAPTER 60

" Who - e debel you ?" -- he at last said --" you no speak - e , dam - me , I kill - e ." And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the dark .

Stubb ' s exordium to his crew is given here at large , because he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general , and especially in inculcating the religion of rowing . But you must not suppose from this specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with his congregation . Not at all ; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity . He would say the most terrific things to his crew , in a tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury , and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a spice to the fun , that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without pulling for dear life , and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing . Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself , so loungingly managed his steering - oar , and so broadly gaped -- open - mouthed at times -- that the mere sight of such a yawning commander , by sheer force of contrast , acted like a charm upon the crew . Then again , Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists , whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous , as to put all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them .

TASHTEGO . ( QUIETLY SMOKING ) That ' s a white man ; he calls that fun : humph ! I save my sweat .

" With what ?" shouted I .

The Dart .

It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman , that a most significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod ' s crew ; an event most lamentable ; and which ended in providing the sometimes madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own .

But no more of this blubbering now , we are going a - whaling , and there is plenty of that yet to come . Let us scrape the ice from our frosted feet , and see what sort of a place this " Spouter " may be .

I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia ; expressing the idea very plainly , so that he could take it in . He said no ; only upon one memorable occasion . It was after a great feast given by his father the king , on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o ' clock in the afternoon , and all cooked and eaten that very evening .

But before going further , it is important to mention here , that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance , yet it is seldom done ; and when done , is still less frequently successful , on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as compared with the lance , which in effect become serious drawbacks . As a general thing , therefore , you must first get fast to a whale , before any pitchpoling comes into play .

' Twas not so hard a task . I thought to find one stubborn , at the least ; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels , and they revolve . Or , if you will , like so many ant - hills of powder , they all stand before me ; and I their match . Oh , hard ! that to fire others , the match itself must needs be wasting ! What I ' ve dared , I ' ve willed ; and what I ' ve willed , I ' ll do ! They think me mad -- Starbuck does ; but I ' m demoniac , I am madness maddened ! That wild madness that ' s only calm to comprehend itself ! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered ; and -- Aye ! I lost this leg . I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer . Now , then , be the prophet and the fulfiller one . That ' s more than ye , ye great gods , ever were . I laugh and hoot at ye , ye cricket - players , ye pugilists , ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes ! I will not say as schoolboys do to bullies -- Take some one of your own size ; don ' t pommel ME ! No , ye ' ve knocked me down , and I am up again ; but YE have run and hidden . Come forth from behind your cotton bags ! I have no long gun to reach ye . Come , Ahab ' s compliments to ye ; come and see if ye can swerve me . Swerve me ? ye cannot swerve me , else ye swerve yourselves ! man has ye there . Swerve me ? The path to my fixed purpose is laid with iron rails , whereon my soul is grooved to run . Over unsounded gorges , through the rifled hearts of mountains , under torrents ' beds , unerringly I rush ! Naught ' s an obstacle , naught ' s an angle to the iron way !

" No , no , no ; I wasn ' t aware of that ," said Elijah , slowly and wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg , with the most unaccountable glances .

Thus much being said , attend now , I pray you , to that marvellous and -- in this particular instance -- almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Whale ' s great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped .

" No , cook ; go on , go on ."

" Man overboard !" cried Daggoo , who amid the general consternation first came to his senses . " Swing the bucket this way !" and putting one foot into it , so as the better to secure his slippery hand - hold on the whip itself , the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head , almost before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom . Meantime , there was a terrible tumult . Looking over the side , they saw the before lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea , as if that moment seized with some momentous idea ; whereas it was only the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which he had sunk ." Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg -- that ' s who ye are speaking to , young man . It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted out for the voyage , and supplied with all her needs , including crew . We are part owners and agents . But as I was going to say , if thou wantest to know what whaling is , as thou tellest ye do , I can put ye in a way of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it , past backing out . Clap eye on Captain Ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he has only one leg ."

I will now refer you to Langsdorff ' s Voyages for a little circumstance in point , peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof . Langsdorff , you must know by the way , was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern ' s famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century . Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter :

Meantime , they hauled more and more upon their lines , till close flanking him on both sides , Stubb answered Flask with lance for lance ; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went , while the multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale ' s body , rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled , thirstily drinking at every new gash , as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains that poured from the smitten rock .

" God bless ye , and have ye in His holy keeping , men ," murmured old Bildad , almost incoherently . " I hope ye ' ll have fine weather now , so that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye -- a pleasant sun is all he needs , and ye ' ll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go . Be careful in the hunt , ye mates . Don ' t stave the boats needlessly , ye harpooneers ; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent . within the year . Don ' t forget your prayers , either . Mr . Starbuck , mind that cooper don ' t waste the spare staves . Oh ! the sail - needles are in the green locker ! Don ' t whale it too much a ' Lord ' s days , men ; but don ' t miss a fair chance either , that ' s rejecting Heaven ' s good gifts . Have an eye to the molasses tierce , Mr . Stubb ; it was a little leaky , I thought . If ye touch at the islands , Mr . Flask , beware of fornication . Good - bye , good - bye ! Don ' t keep that cheese too long down in the hold , Mr . Starbuck ; it ' ll spoil . Be careful with the butter -- twenty cents the pound it was , and mind ye , if --"

It was during the more pleasant weather , that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast - head came round .

" Cough be damned ! Pass along that return bucket ."

" Come hither to me -- hither , hither ," said Peleg , with a significance in his eye that almost startled me . " Look ye , lad ; never say that on board the Pequod . Never say it anywhere . Captain Ahab did not name himself . ' Twas a foolish , ignorant whim of his crazy , widowed mother , who died when he was only a twelvemonth old . And yet the old squaw Tistig , at Gayhead , said that the name would somehow prove prophetic . And , perhaps , other fools like her may tell thee the same . I wish to warn thee . It ' s a lie . I know Captain Ahab well ; I ' ve sailed with him as mate years ago ; I know what he is -- a good man -- not a pious , good man , like Bildad , but a swearing good man -- something like me -- only there ' s a good deal more of him . Aye , aye , I know that he was never very jolly ; and I know that on the passage home , he was a little out of his mind for a spell ; but it was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump that brought that about , as any one might see . I know , too , that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale , he ' s been a kind of moody -- desperate moody , and savage sometimes ; but that will all pass off . And once for all , let me tell thee and assure thee , young man , it ' s better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one . So good - bye to thee -- and wrong not Captain Ahab , because he happens to have a wicked name . Besides , my boy , he has a wife -- not three voyages wedded -- a sweet , resigned girl . Think of that ; by that sweet girl that old man has a child : hold ye then there can be any utter , hopeless harm in Ahab ? No , no , my lad ; stricken , blasted , if he be , Ahab has his humanities !"

Then , again , in 1825 , Bernard Germain , Count de Lacepede , a great naturalist , published a scientific systemized whale book , wherein are several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan . All these are not only incorrect , but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale ( that is to say , the Right whale ), even Scoresby , a long experienced man as touching that species , declares not to have its counterpart in nature .

CHAPTER 59

Look now at Stubb ; a man who from his humorous , deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies , was specially qualified to excel in pitchpoling . Look at him ; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the flying boat ; wrapt in fleecy foam , the towing whale is forty feet ahead . Handling the long lance lightly , glancing twice or thrice along its length to see if it be exactly straight , Stubb whistlingly gathers up the coil of the warp in one hand , so as to secure its free end in his grasp , leaving the rest unobstructed . Then holding the lance full before his waistband ' s middle , he levels it at the whale ; when , covering him with it , he steadily depresses the butt - end in his hand , thereby elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm , fifteen feet in the air . He minds you somewhat of a juggler , balancing a long staff on his chin . Next moment with a rapid , nameless impulse , in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming distance , and quivers in the life spot of the whale . Instead of sparkling water , he now spouts red blood .

" On one occasion I saw two of these monsters ( whales ) probably male and female , slowly swimming , one after the other , within less than a stone ' s throw of the shore " ( Terra Del Fuego ), " over which the beech tree extended its branches ." -- DARWIN ' S VOYAGE OF A NATURALIST .

Now having a night , a day , and still another night following before me in New Bedford , ere I could embark for my destined port , it became a matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile . It was a very dubious - looking , nay , a very dark and dismal night , bitingly cold and cheerless . I knew no one in the place . With anxious grapnels I had sounded my pocket , and only brought up a few pieces of silver ,-- So , wherever you go , Ishmael , said I to myself , as I stood in the middle of a dreary street shouldering my bag , and comparing the gloom towards the north with the darkness towards the south -- wherever in your wisdom you may conclude to lodge for the night , my dear Ishmael , be sure to inquire the price , and don ' t be too particular .

Walking the deck with quick , side - lunging strides , Ahab commanded the t ' gallant sails and royals to be set , and every stunsail spread . The best man in the ship must take the helm . Then , with every mast - head manned , the piled - up craft rolled down before the wind . The strange , upheaving , lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows of so many sails , made the buoyant , hovering deck to feel like air beneath the feet ; while still she rushed along , as if two antagonistic influences were struggling in her -- one to mount direct to heaven , the other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal . And had you watched Ahab ' s face that night , you would have thought that in him also two different things were warring . While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck , every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin - tap . On life and death this old man walked . But though the ship so swiftly sped , and though from every eye , like arrows , the eager glances shot , yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night . Every sailor swore he saw it once , but not a second time .

" We have been at great trouble , and peril , and some expense , and is all that to go to the Duke ' s benefit ; we getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters ?"

Be it said , however , that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species . Where one of that sort go down , twenty Right Whales do . This difference in the species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale ; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton ; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free . But there are instances where , after the lapse of many hours or several days , the sunken whale again rises , more buoyant than in life . But the reason of this is obvious . Gases are generated in him ; he swells to a prodigious magnitude ; becomes a sort of animal balloon . A line - of - battle ship could hardly keep him under then . In the Shore Whaling , on soundings , among the Bays of New Zealand , when a Right Whale gives token of sinking , they fasten buoys to him , with plenty of rope ; so that when the body has gone down , they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again .

I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas , something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale - ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there . It may be worth while , therefore , previously to advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman . It is time to set the world right in this matter , by proving such pictures of the whale all wrong .

CHAPTER 70

" May be ; may be . But it ' s made a wise man of me , Flask . D ' ye see Ahab standing there , sideways looking over the stern ? Well , the best thing you can do , Flask , is to let the old man alone ; never speak to him , whatever he says . Halloa ! What ' s that he shouts ? Hark !"

" Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks , the infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over ; he rears his enormous head , and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him ; he rushes at the boats with his head ; they are propelled before him with vast swiftness , and sometimes utterly destroyed . ... It is a matter of great astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so interesting , and , in a commercial point of view , so important an animal ( as the Sperm Whale ) should have been so entirely neglected , or should have excited so little curiosity among the numerous , and many of them competent observers , that of late years , must have possessed the most abundant and the most convenient opportunities of witnessing their habitudes ." -- THOMAS BEALE ' S HISTORY OF THE SPERM WHALE , 1839 .

But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on board , as she did the last day , with a long oil - ladle in one hand , and a still longer whaling lance in the other . Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward . As for Bildad , he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed , and at every fresh arrival , down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper . Every once in a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den , roaring at the men down the hatchways , roaring up to the riggers at the mast - head , and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam .

It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale ' s prodigious head hanging to the Pequod ' s side . But we must let it continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it . For the present other matters press , and the best we can do now for the head , is to pray heaven the tackles may hold .

" But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct , he kept his own counsel ( at least till all was over ) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles of his heart . He was in Radney the chief mate ' s watch ; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than half way to meet his doom , after the scene at the rigging , he insisted , against the express counsel of the captain , upon resuming the head of his watch at night . Upon this , and one or two other circumstances , Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge .

I considered the matter a moment , and then up stairs we went , and I was ushered into a small room , cold as a clam , and furnished , sure enough , with a prodigious bed , almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep abreast .

The hours wore on ;-- Ahab now shut up within his cabin ; anon , pacing the deck , with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect .

" No , sir ; not yet ," said Stubb , emboldened , " I will not tamely be called a dog , sir ."

CHAPTER 17

ALL . The squall ! the squall ! jump , my jollies ! ( THEY SCATTER .)

" Where - away ?"

Secondly : The ship Union , also of Nantucket , was in the year 1807 totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset , but the authentic particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter , though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it .

But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order , a pale man , with a bandaged head , arrested them -- Radney the chief mate . Ever since the blow , he had lain in his berth ; but that morning , hearing the tumult on the deck , he had crept out , and thus far had watched the whole scene . Such was the state of his mouth , that he could hardly speak ; but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the captain dared not attempt , he snatched the rope and advanced to his pinioned foe .

" Dost know nothing at all about whaling , I dare say -- eh ?

Ere long , from his first visit in the air , he withdrew into his cabin . But after that morning , he was every day visible to the crew ; either standing in his pivot - hole , or seated upon an ivory stool he had ; or heavily walking the deck . As the sky grew less gloomy ; indeed , began to grow a little genial , he became still less and less a recluse ; as if , when the ship had sailed from home , nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded . And , by and by , it came to pass , that he was almost continually in the air ; but , as yet , for all that he said , or perceptibly did , on the at last sunny deck , he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast . But the Pequod was only making a passage now ; not regularly cruising ; nearly all whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to , so that there was little or nothing , out of himself , to employ or excite Ahab , now ; and thus chase away , for that one interval , the clouds that layer upon layer were piled upon his brow , as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon .

" I think I remember some such story as you were telling ," said Flask , when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the ship , " but I can ' t remember where ."

" He wants you to take a glass of wine with him ," said the interpreter .

BOOK I . ( FOLIO ), CHAPTER I . ( SPERM WHALE ).-- This whale , among the English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale , and the Physeter whale , and the Anvil Headed whale , is the present Cachalot of the French , and the Pottsfich of the Germans , and the Macrocephalus of the Long Words . He is , without doubt , the largest inhabitant of the globe ; the most formidable of all whales to encounter ; the most majestic in aspect ; and lastly , by far the most valuable in commerce ; he being the only creature from which that valuable substance , spermaceti , is obtained . All his peculiarities will , in many other places , be enlarged upon . It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do . Philologically considered , it is absurd . Some centuries ago , when the Sperm whale was almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality , and when his oil was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish ; in those days spermaceti , it would seem , was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale . It was the idea also , that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses . In those times , also , spermaceti was exceedingly scarce , not being used for light , but only as an ointment and medicament . It was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb . When , as I opine , in the course of time , the true nature of spermaceti became known , its original name was still retained by the dealers ; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity . And so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti was really derived .

For some time past , though at intervals only , the unaccompanied , secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen . But not all of them knew of his existence ; only a few of them , comparatively , had knowingly seen him ; while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him , was small indeed . For , owing to the large number of whale - cruisers ; the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference , many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes , so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch , to encounter a single news - telling sail of any sort ; the inordinate length of each separate voyage ; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home ; all these , with other circumstances , direct and indirect , long obstructed the spread through the whole world - wide whaling - fleet of the special individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick . It was hardly to be doubted , that several vessels reported to have encountered , at such or such a time , or on such or such a meridian , a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity , which whale , after doing great mischief to his assailants , had completely escaped them ; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption , I say , that the whale in question must have been no other than Moby Dick . Yet as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not unfrequent instances of great ferocity , cunning , and malice in the monster attacked ; therefore it was , that those who by accident ignorantly gave battle to Moby Dick ; such hunters , perhaps , for the most part , were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred , more , as it were , to the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large , than to the individual cause . In that way , mostly , the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded .

" Queequeg no care what god made him shark ," said the savage , agonizingly lifting his hand up and down ; " wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god ; but de god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin ."

Wet , drenched through , and shivering cold , despairing of ship or boat , we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on . The mist still spread over the sea , the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat . Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet , hollowing his hand to his ear . We all heard a faint creaking , as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by the storm . The sound came nearer and nearer ; the thick mists were dimly parted by a huge , vague form . Affrighted , we all sprang into the sea as the ship at last loomed into view , bearing right down upon us within a distance of not much more than its length .

Even as it was , I thought something of slipping out of the window , but it was the second floor back . I am no coward , but what to make of this head - peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension . Ignorance is the parent of fear , and being completely nonplussed and confounded about the stranger , I confess I was now as much afraid of him as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of night . In fact , I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then to address him , and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed inexplicable in him .

" No ," said Peleg , " and he hasn ' t been baptized right either , or it would have washed some of that devil ' s blue off his face ."

" A mariner sat in the shrouds one night , The wind was piping free ; Now bright , now dimmed , was the moonlight pale , And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale , As it floundered in the sea ." -- ELIZABETH OAKES SMITH .

The Castaway .

" The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the water - works at London Bridge , and the water roaring in its passage through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood gushing from the whale ' s heart ." -- PALEY ' S THEOLOGY .

With memories like these in him , and , moreover , given to a certain superstitiousness , as has been said ; the courage of this Starbuck which could , nevertheless , still flourish , must indeed have been extreme . But it was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized , and with such terrible experiences and remembrances as he had ; it was not in nature that these things should fail in latently engendering an element in him , which , under suitable circumstances , would break out from its confinement , and burn all his courage up . And brave as he might be , it was that sort of bravery chiefly , visible in some intrepid men , which , while generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas , or winds , or whales , or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world , yet cannot withstand those more terrific , because more spiritual terrors , which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged and mighty man .

Ship and boat diverged ; the cold , damp night breeze blew between ; a screaming gull flew overhead ; the two hulls wildly rolled ; we gave three heavy - hearted cheers , and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic .

" Who ' s Old Thunder ?" said I , again riveted with the insane earnestness of his manner .

" Good night , landlord ," said I , " you may go ."

"' Will you be so good as to bring the priest also , Don ?'

" Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him ; One would think the deep to be hoary ." -- JOB .

CHAPTER 53

Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me , I had noticed that the seamen at the main and mizzen - mast - heads were already drowsy . So that at last all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars , and for every swing that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman . The waves , too , nodded their indolent crests ; and across the wide trance of the sea , east nodded to west , and the sun over all .

Next morning , Monday , after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber , for a block , I settled my own and comrade ' s bill ; using , however , my comrade ' s money . The grinning landlord , as well as the boarders , seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between me and Queequeg -- especially as Peter Coffin ' s cock and bull stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person whom I now companied with .

As he mounted the deck , Ahab abruptly accosted him , without at all heeding what he had in his hand ; but in his broken lingo , the German soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale ; immediately turning the conversation to his lamp - feeder and oil can , with some remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in profound darkness -- his last drop of Bremen oil being gone , and not a single flying - fish yet captured to supply the deficiency ; concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically called a CLEAN one ( that is , an empty one ), well deserving the name of Jungfrau or the Virgin .

The Prophet .

Every whale - ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships , whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed , depends upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans . Thus , most letters never reach their mark ; and many are only received after attaining an age of two or three years or more .

Though many of the whales , as has been said , were in violent motion , yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor retreated , but collectively remained in one place . As is customary in those cases , the boats at once separated , each making for some one lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal . In about three minutes ' time , Queequeg ' s harpoon was flung ; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces , and then running away with us like light , steered straight for the heart of the herd . Though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such circumstances , is in no wise unprecedented ; and indeed is almost always more or less anticipated ; yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery . For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal , you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a delirious throb .

Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo , a gigantic , coal - black negro - savage , with a lion - like tread -- an Ahasuerus to behold . Suspended from his ears were two golden hoops , so large that the sailors called them ring - bolts , and would talk of securing the top - sail halyards to them . In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler , lying in a lonely bay on his native coast . And never having been anywhere in the world but in Africa , Nantucket , and the pagan harbors most frequented by whalemen ; and having now led for many years the bold life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what manner of men they shipped ; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues , and erect as a giraffe , moved about the decks in all the pomp of six feet five in his socks . There was a corporeal humility in looking up at him ; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress . Curious to tell , this imperial negro , Ahasuerus Daggoo , was the Squire of little Flask , who looked like a chess - man beside him . As for the residue of the Pequod ' s company , be it said , that at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the mast employed in the American whale fishery , are Americans born , though pretty nearly all the officers are . Herein it is the same with the American whale fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies , and the engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and Railroads . The same , I say , because in all these cases the native American liberally provides the brains , the rest of the world as generously supplying the muscles . No small number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores , where the outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores . In like manner , the Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London , put in at the Shetland Islands , to receive the full complement of their crew . Upon the passage homewards , they drop them there again . How it is , there is no telling , but Islanders seem to make the best whalemen . They were nearly all Islanders in the Pequod , ISOLATOES too , I call such , not acknowledging the common continent of men , but each ISOLATO living on a separate continent of his own . Yet now , federated along one keel , what a set these Isolatoes were ! An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles of the sea , and all the ends of the earth , accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay the world ' s grievances before that bar from which not very many of them ever come back . Black Little Pip -- he never did -- oh , no ! he went before . Poor Alabama boy ! On the grim Pequod ' s forecastle , ye shall ere long see him , beating his tambourine ; prelusive of the eternal time , when sent for , to the great quarter - deck on high , he was bid strike in with angels , and beat his tambourine in glory ; called a coward here , hailed a hero there !

Coffin ?-- Spouter ?-- Rather ominous in that particular connexion , thought I . But it is a common name in Nantucket , they say , and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there . As the light looked so dim , and the place , for the time , looked quiet enough , and the dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt district , and as the swinging sign had a poverty - stricken sort of creak to it , I thought that here was the very spot for cheap lodgings , and the best of pea coffee .

Almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enormous mass dropped into the sea , like Niagara ' s Table - Rock into the whirlpool ; the suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it , to far down her glittering copper ; and all caught their breath , as half swinging -- now over the sailors ' heads , and now over the water -- Daggoo , through a thick mist of spray , was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles , while poor , buried - alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea ! But hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away , when a naked figure with a boarding - sword in his hand , was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks . The next , a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue . One packed rush was made to the side , and every eye counted every ripple , as moment followed moment , and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen . Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside , and pushed a little off from the ship .

" Do with it ? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home ;-- what else ?"

Sunset .

" Broke ," said I --" BROKE , do you mean ?"

" Woo - hoo ! Wa - hee !" screamed the Gay - Header in reply , raising some old war - whoop to the skies ; as every oarsman in the strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading stroke which the eager Indian gave .

" Aye , aye , I thought so . Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship ."

Folding back the counterpane , I stooped over the bed . Though none of the most elegant , it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well . I then glanced round the room ; and besides the bedstead and centre table , could see no other furniture belonging to the place , but a rude shelf , the four walls , and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale . Of things not properly belonging to the room , there was a hammock lashed up , and thrown upon the floor in one corner ; also a large seaman ' s bag , containing the harpooneer ' s wardrobe , no doubt in lieu of a land trunk . Likewise , there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf over the fire - place , and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed .

Heads or Tails .

Bethink yourself also of another thing . When two large , loaded Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks , what do the sailors do ? They do not suspend between them , at the point of coming contact , any merely hard substance , like iron or wood . No , they hold there a large , round wad of tow and cork , enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox - hide . That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow - bars . By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at . But supplementary to this , it has hypothetically occurred to me , that as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them , capable , at will , of distension or contraction ; and as the Sperm Whale , as far as I know , has no such provision in him ; considering , too , the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the surface , and anon swims with it high elevated out of the water ; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope ; considering the unique interior of his head ; it has hypothetically occurred to me , I say , that those mystical lung - celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with the outer air , so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and contraction . If this be so , fancy the irresistibleness of that might , to which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes .

" You said up there , didn ' t you ? and now look yourself , and see where your tongs are pointing . But , perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber ' s hole , cook ; but , no , no , cook , you don ' t get there , except you go the regular way , round by the rigging . It ' s a ticklish business , but must be done , or else it ' s no go . But none of us are in heaven yet . Drop your tongs , cook , and hear my orders . Do ye hear ? Hold your hat in one hand , and clap t ' other a ' top of your heart , when I ' m giving my orders , cook . What ! that your heart , there ?-- that ' s your gizzard ! Aloft ! aloft !-- that ' s it -- now you have it . Hold it there now , and pay attention ."

" On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie , Don ; but -- I crave your courtesy -- may be , you shall soon hear further of all that . Now , gentlemen , in square - sail brigs and three - masted ships , well - nigh as large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far Manilla ; this Lakeman , in the land - locked heart of our America , had yet been nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly connected with the open ocean . For in their interflowing aggregate , those grand fresh - water seas of ours ,-- Erie , and Ontario , and Huron , and Superior , and Michigan ,-- possess an ocean - like expansiveness , with many of the ocean ' s noblest traits ; with many of its rimmed varieties of races and of climes . They contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles , even as the Polynesian waters do ; in large part , are shored by two great contrasting nations , as the Atlantic is ; they furnish long maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East , dotted all round their banks ; here and there are frowned upon by batteries , and by the goat - like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw ; they have heard the fleet thunderings of naval victories ; at intervals , they yield their beaches to wild barbarians , whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams ; for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests , where the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies ; those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey , and silken creatures whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors ; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland , as well as Winnebago villages ; they float alike the full - rigged merchant ship , the armed cruiser of the State , the steamer , and the beech canoe ; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as direful as any that lash the salted wave ; they know what shipwrecks are , for out of sight of land , however inland , they have drowned full many a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew . Thus , gentlemen , though an inlander , Steelkilt was wild - ocean born , and wild - ocean nurtured ; as much of an audacious mariner as any . And for Radney , though in his infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach , to nurse at his maternal sea ; though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific ; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods seaman , fresh from the latitudes of buck - horn handled bowie - knives . Yet was this Nantucketer a man with some good - hearted traits ; and this Lakeman , a mariner , who though a sort of devil indeed , might yet by inflexible firmness , only tempered by that common decency of human recognition which is the meanest slave ' s right ; thus treated , this Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile . At all events , he had proved so thus far ; but Radney was doomed and made mad , and Steelkilt -- but , gentlemen , you shall hear .

Instantly the captain ran forward , and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the cutting - tackles , and at once cast loose the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship .

Another thing . Flask was the last person down at the dinner , and Flask is the first man up . Consider ! For hereby Flask ' s dinner was badly jammed in point of time . Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him ; and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear . If Stubb even , who is but a peg higher than Flask , happens to have but a small appetite , and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast , then Flask must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day ; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck . Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private , that ever since he had arisen to the dignity of an officer , from that moment he had never known what it was to be otherwise than hungry , more or less . For what he ate did not so much relieve his hunger , as keep it immortal in him . Peace and satisfaction , thought Flask , have for ever departed from my stomach . I am an officer ; but , how I wish I could fish a bit of old - fashioned beef in the forecastle , as I used to when I was before the mast . There ' s the fruits of promotion now ; there ' s the vanity of glory : there ' s the insanity of life ! Besides , if it were so that any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask ' s official capacity , all that sailor had to do , in order to obtain ample vengeance , was to go aft at dinner - time , and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky - light , sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab .

Thus the whale - line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils , twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction . All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions ; so that to the timid eye of the landsman , they seem as Indian jugglers , with the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs . Nor can any son of mortal woman , for the first time , seat himself amid those hempen intricacies , and while straining his utmost at the oar , bethink him that at any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted , and all these horrible contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings ; he cannot be thus circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones to quiver in him like a shaken jelly . Yet habit -- strange thing ! what cannot habit accomplish ?-- Gayer sallies , more merry mirth , better jokes , and brighter repartees , you never heard over your mahogany , than you will hear over the half - inch white cedar of the whale - boat , when thus hung in hangman ' s nooses ; and , like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward , the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death , with a halter around every neck , as you may say .

" Ah , my dear fellow , you can ' t fool us that way -- you can ' t fool us . It is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him ."

" WHALE . ... It is more immediately from the Dut . and Ger . WALLEN ; A . S . WALW - IAN , to roll , to wallow ." -- RICHARDSON ' S DICTIONARY

So fare thee well , poor devil of a Sub - Sub , whose commentator I am . Thou belongest to that hopeless , sallow tribe which no wine of this world will ever warm ; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy - strong ; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit , and feel poor - devilish , too ; and grow convivial upon tears ; and say to them bluntly , with full eyes and empty glasses , and in not altogether unpleasant sadness -- Give it up , Sub - Subs ! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world , by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless ! Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye ! But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal - mast with your hearts ; for your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven - storied heavens , and making refugees of long - pampered Gabriel , Michael , and Raphael , against your coming . Here ye strike but splintered hearts together -- there , ye shall strike unsplinterable glasses !

" Do you is all sharks , and by natur wery woracious , yet I zay to you , fellow - critters , dat dat woraciousness --' top dat dam slappin ' ob de tail ! How you tink to hear , spose you keep up such a dam slappin ' and bitin ' dare ?"

Now comes the Baling of the Case . But to comprehend it aright , you must know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated upon .

All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air . But it bade fair to outstrip them ; it flew on and on , as a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the hills .

The Specksynder .

" Mrs . Hussey ," said I , " he ' s ALIVE at all events ; so leave us , if you please , and I will see to this strange affair myself ."

PORTUGUESE SAILOR . How the sea rolls swashing ' gainst the side ! Stand by for reefing , hearties ! the winds are just crossing swords , pell - mell they ' ll go lunging presently .

But there was no time for shuddering , for now the savage went about something that completely fascinated my attention , and convinced me that he must indeed be a heathen . Going to his heavy grego , or wrapall , or dreadnaught , which he had previously hung on a chair , he fumbled in the pockets , and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch on its back , and exactly the colour of a three days ' old Congo baby . Remembering the embalmed head , at first I almost thought that this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner . But seeing that it was not at all limber , and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony , I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol , which indeed it proved to be . For now the savage goes up to the empty fire - place , and removing the papered fire - board , sets up this little hunch - backed image , like a tenpin , between the andirons . The chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty , so that I thought this fire - place made a very appropriate little shrine or chapel for his Congo idol .

"' What are you making there ?' said a shipmate .

Returning from my first morning stroll , I again sallied out upon this special errand . The sky had changed from clear , sunny cold , to driving sleet and mist . Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called bearskin , I fought my way against the stubborn storm . Entering , I found a small scattered congregation of sailors , and sailors ' wives and widows . A muffled silence reigned , only broken at times by the shrieks of the storm . Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from the other , as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable . The chaplain had not yet arrived ; and there these silent islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets , with black borders , masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit . Three of them ran something like the following , but I do not pretend to quote :--

Tashtego stood in the bows . He was full of the fire of the hunt . He hated Pip for a poltroon . Snatching the boat - knife from its sheath , he suspended its sharp edge over the line , and turning towards Stubb , exclaimed interrogatively , " Cut ?" Meantime Pip ' s blue , choked face plainly looked , Do , for God ' s sake ! All passed in a flash . In less than half a minute , this entire thing happened .

CHAPTER 60

" Who - e debel you ?" -- he at last said --" you no speak - e , dam - me , I kill - e ." And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the dark .

Stubb ' s exordium to his crew is given here at large , because he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general , and especially in inculcating the religion of rowing . But you must not suppose from this specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with his congregation . Not at all ; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity . He would say the most terrific things to his crew , in a tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury , and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a spice to the fun , that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without pulling for dear life , and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing . Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself , so loungingly managed his steering - oar , and so broadly gaped -- open - mouthed at times -- that the mere sight of such a yawning commander , by sheer force of contrast , acted like a charm upon the crew . Then again , Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists , whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous , as to put all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them .

TASHTEGO . ( QUIETLY SMOKING ) That ' s a white man ; he calls that fun : humph ! I save my sweat .

" With what ?" shouted I .

The Dart .

It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman , that a most significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod ' s crew ; an event most lamentable ; and which ended in providing the sometimes madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own .

But no more of this blubbering now , we are going a - whaling , and there is plenty of that yet to come . Let us scrape the ice from our frosted feet , and see what sort of a place this " Spouter " may be .

I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia ; expressing the idea very plainly , so that he could take it in . He said no ; only upon one memorable occasion . It was after a great feast given by his father the king , on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o ' clock in the afternoon , and all cooked and eaten that very evening .

But before going further , it is important to mention here , that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance , yet it is seldom done ; and when done , is still less frequently successful , on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as compared with the lance , which in effect become serious drawbacks . As a general thing , therefore , you must first get fast to a whale , before any pitchpoling comes into play .

' Twas not so hard a task . I thought to find one stubborn , at the least ; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels , and they revolve . Or , if you will , like so many ant - hills of powder , they all stand before me ; and I their match . Oh , hard ! that to fire others , the match itself must needs be wasting ! What I ' ve dared , I ' ve willed ; and what I ' ve willed , I ' ll do ! They think me mad -- Starbuck does ; but I ' m demoniac , I am madness maddened ! That wild madness that ' s only calm to comprehend itself ! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered ; and -- Aye ! I lost this leg . I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer . Now , then , be the prophet and the fulfiller one . That ' s more than ye , ye great gods , ever were . I laugh and hoot at ye , ye cricket - players , ye pugilists , ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes ! I will not say as schoolboys do to bullies -- Take some one of your own size ; don ' t pommel ME ! No , ye ' ve knocked me down , and I am up again ; but YE have run and hidden . Come forth from behind your cotton bags ! I have no long gun to reach ye . Come , Ahab ' s compliments to ye ; come and see if ye can swerve me . Swerve me ? ye cannot swerve me , else ye swerve yourselves ! man has ye there . Swerve me ? The path to my fixed purpose is laid with iron rails , whereon my soul is grooved to run . Over unsounded gorges , through the rifled hearts of mountains , under torrents ' beds , unerringly I rush ! Naught ' s an obstacle , naught ' s an angle to the iron way !

" No , no , no ; I wasn ' t aware of that ," said Elijah , slowly and wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg , with the most unaccountable glances .

Thus much being said , attend now , I pray you , to that marvellous and -- in this particular instance -- almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Whale ' s great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped .

" No , cook ; go on , go on ."

" Man overboard !" cried Daggoo , who amid the general consternation first came to his senses . " Swing the bucket this way !" and putting one foot into it , so as the better to secure his slippery hand - hold on the whip itself , the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head , almost before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom . Meantime , there was a terrible tumult . Looking over the side , they saw the before lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea , as if that moment seized with some momentous idea ; whereas it was only the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which he had sunk ." Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg -- that ' s who ye are speaking to , young man . It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted out for the voyage , and supplied with all her needs , including crew . We are part owners and agents . But as I was going to say , if thou wantest to know what whaling is , as thou tellest ye do , I can put ye in a way of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it , past backing out . Clap eye on Captain Ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he has only one leg ."

I will now refer you to Langsdorff ' s Voyages for a little circumstance in point , peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof . Langsdorff , you must know by the way , was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern ' s famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century . Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter :

Meantime , they hauled more and more upon their lines , till close flanking him on both sides , Stubb answered Flask with lance for lance ; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went , while the multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale ' s body , rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled , thirstily drinking at every new gash , as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains that poured from the smitten rock .

" God bless ye , and have ye in His holy keeping , men ," murmured old Bildad , almost incoherently . " I hope ye ' ll have fine weather now , so that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye -- a pleasant sun is all he needs , and ye ' ll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go . Be careful in the hunt , ye mates . Don ' t stave the boats needlessly , ye harpooneers ; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent . within the year . Don ' t forget your prayers , either . Mr . Starbuck , mind that cooper don ' t waste the spare staves . Oh ! the sail - needles are in the green locker ! Don ' t whale it too much a ' Lord ' s days , men ; but don ' t miss a fair chance either , that ' s rejecting Heaven ' s good gifts . Have an eye to the molasses tierce , Mr . Stubb ; it was a little leaky , I thought . If ye touch at the islands , Mr . Flask , beware of fornication . Good - bye , good - bye ! Don ' t keep that cheese too long down in the hold , Mr . Starbuck ; it ' ll spoil . Be careful with the butter -- twenty cents the pound it was , and mind ye , if --"

It was during the more pleasant weather , that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast - head came round .

" Cough be damned ! Pass along that return bucket ."

" Come hither to me -- hither , hither ," said Peleg , with a significance in his eye that almost startled me . " Look ye , lad ; never say that on board the Pequod . Never say it anywhere . Captain Ahab did not name himself . ' Twas a foolish , ignorant whim of his crazy , widowed mother , who died when he was only a twelvemonth old . And yet the old squaw Tistig , at Gayhead , said that the name would somehow prove prophetic . And , perhaps , other fools like her may tell thee the same . I wish to warn thee . It ' s a lie . I know Captain Ahab well ; I ' ve sailed with him as mate years ago ; I know what he is -- a good man -- not a pious , good man , like Bildad , but a swearing good man -- something like me -- only there ' s a good deal more of him . Aye , aye , I know that he was never very jolly ; and I know that on the passage home , he was a little out of his mind for a spell ; but it was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump that brought that about , as any one might see . I know , too , that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale , he ' s been a kind of moody -- desperate moody , and savage sometimes ; but that will all pass off . And once for all , let me tell thee and assure thee , young man , it ' s better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one . So good - bye to thee -- and wrong not Captain Ahab , because he happens to have a wicked name . Besides , my boy , he has a wife -- not three voyages wedded -- a sweet , resigned girl . Think of that ; by that sweet girl that old man has a child : hold ye then there can be any utter , hopeless harm in Ahab ? No , no , my lad ; stricken , blasted , if he be , Ahab has his humanities !"

Then , again , in 1825 , Bernard Germain , Count de Lacepede , a great naturalist , published a scientific systemized whale book , wherein are several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan . All these are not only incorrect , but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale ( that is to say , the Right whale ), even Scoresby , a long experienced man as touching that species , declares not to have its counterpart in nature .

CHAPTER 59

Look now at Stubb ; a man who from his humorous , deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies , was specially qualified to excel in pitchpoling . Look at him ; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the flying boat ; wrapt in fleecy foam , the towing whale is forty feet ahead . Handling the long lance lightly , glancing twice or thrice along its length to see if it be exactly straight , Stubb whistlingly gathers up the coil of the warp in one hand , so as to secure its free end in his grasp , leaving the rest unobstructed . Then holding the lance full before his waistband ' s middle , he levels it at the whale ; when , covering him with it , he steadily depresses the butt - end in his hand , thereby elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm , fifteen feet in the air . He minds you somewhat of a juggler , balancing a long staff on his chin . Next moment with a rapid , nameless impulse , in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming distance , and quivers in the life spot of the whale . Instead of sparkling water , he now spouts red blood .

" On one occasion I saw two of these monsters ( whales ) probably male and female , slowly swimming , one after the other , within less than a stone ' s throw of the shore " ( Terra Del Fuego ), " over which the beech tree extended its branches ." -- DARWIN ' S VOYAGE OF A NATURALIST .

Now having a night , a day , and still another night following before me in New Bedford , ere I could embark for my destined port , it became a matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile . It was a very dubious - looking , nay , a very dark and dismal night , bitingly cold and cheerless . I knew no one in the place . With anxious grapnels I had sounded my pocket , and only brought up a few pieces of silver ,-- So , wherever you go , Ishmael , said I to myself , as I stood in the middle of a dreary street shouldering my bag , and comparing the gloom towards the north with the darkness towards the south -- wherever in your wisdom you may conclude to lodge for the night , my dear Ishmael , be sure to inquire the price , and don ' t be too particular .

Walking the deck with quick , side - lunging strides , Ahab commanded the t ' gallant sails and royals to be set , and every stunsail spread . The best man in the ship must take the helm . Then , with every mast - head manned , the piled - up craft rolled down before the wind . The strange , upheaving , lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows of so many sails , made the buoyant , hovering deck to feel like air beneath the feet ; while still she rushed along , as if two antagonistic influences were struggling in her -- one to mount direct to heaven , the other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal . And had you watched Ahab ' s face that night , you would have thought that in him also two different things were warring . While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck , every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin - tap . On life and death this old man walked . But though the ship so swiftly sped , and though from every eye , like arrows , the eager glances shot , yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night . Every sailor swore he saw it once , but not a second time .

" We have been at great trouble , and peril , and some expense , and is all that to go to the Duke ' s benefit ; we getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters ?"

Be it said , however , that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species . Where one of that sort go down , twenty Right Whales do . This difference in the species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale ; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton ; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free . But there are instances where , after the lapse of many hours or several days , the sunken whale again rises , more buoyant than in life . But the reason of this is obvious . Gases are generated in him ; he swells to a prodigious magnitude ; becomes a sort of animal balloon . A line - of - battle ship could hardly keep him under then . In the Shore Whaling , on soundings , among the Bays of New Zealand , when a Right Whale gives token of sinking , they fasten buoys to him , with plenty of rope ; so that when the body has gone down , they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again .

I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas , something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale - ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there . It may be worth while , therefore , previously to advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman . It is time to set the world right in this matter , by proving such pictures of the whale all wrong .

CHAPTER 70

" May be ; may be . But it ' s made a wise man of me , Flask . D ' ye see Ahab standing there , sideways looking over the stern ? Well , the best thing you can do , Flask , is to let the old man alone ; never speak to him , whatever he says . Halloa ! What ' s that he shouts ? Hark !"

" Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks , the infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over ; he rears his enormous head , and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him ; he rushes at the boats with his head ; they are propelled before him with vast swiftness , and sometimes utterly destroyed . ... It is a matter of great astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so interesting , and , in a commercial point of view , so important an animal ( as the Sperm Whale ) should have been so entirely neglected , or should have excited so little curiosity among the numerous , and many of them competent observers , that of late years , must have possessed the most abundant and the most convenient opportunities of witnessing their habitudes ." -- THOMAS BEALE ' S HISTORY OF THE SPERM WHALE , 1839 .

But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on board , as she did the last day , with a long oil - ladle in one hand , and a still longer whaling lance in the other . Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward . As for Bildad , he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed , and at every fresh arrival , down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper . Every once in a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den , roaring at the men down the hatchways , roaring up to the riggers at the mast - head , and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam .

It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale ' s prodigious head hanging to the Pequod ' s side . But we must let it continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it . For the present other matters press , and the best we can do now for the head , is to pray heaven the tackles may hold .

" But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct , he kept his own counsel ( at least till all was over ) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles of his heart . He was in Radney the chief mate ' s watch ; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than half way to meet his doom , after the scene at the rigging , he insisted , against the express counsel of the captain , upon resuming the head of his watch at night . Upon this , and one or two other circumstances , Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge .

I considered the matter a moment , and then up stairs we went , and I was ushered into a small room , cold as a clam , and furnished , sure enough , with a prodigious bed , almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep abreast .

The hours wore on ;-- Ahab now shut up within his cabin ; anon , pacing the deck , with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect .

" No , sir ; not yet ," said Stubb , emboldened , " I will not tamely be called a dog , sir ."

CHAPTER 17

ALL . The squall ! the squall ! jump , my jollies ! ( THEY SCATTER .)

" Where - away ?"

Secondly : The ship Union , also of Nantucket , was in the year 1807 totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset , but the authentic particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter , though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it .

But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order , a pale man , with a bandaged head , arrested them -- Radney the chief mate . Ever since the blow , he had lain in his berth ; but that morning , hearing the tumult on the deck , he had crept out , and thus far had watched the whole scene . Such was the state of his mouth , that he could hardly speak ; but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the captain dared not attempt , he snatched the rope and advanced to his pinioned foe .

" Dost know nothing at all about whaling , I dare say -- eh ?

Ere long , from his first visit in the air , he withdrew into his cabin . But after that morning , he was every day visible to the crew ; either standing in his pivot - hole , or seated upon an ivory stool he had ; or heavily walking the deck . As the sky grew less gloomy ; indeed , began to grow a little genial , he became still less and less a recluse ; as if , when the ship had sailed from home , nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded . And , by and by , it came to pass , that he was almost continually in the air ; but , as yet , for all that he said , or perceptibly did , on the at last sunny deck , he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast . But the Pequod was only making a passage now ; not regularly cruising ; nearly all whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to , so that there was little or nothing , out of himself , to employ or excite Ahab , now ; and thus chase away , for that one interval , the clouds that layer upon layer were piled upon his brow , as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon .

" I think I remember some such story as you were telling ," said Flask , when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the ship , " but I can ' t remember where ."

" He wants you to take a glass of wine with him ," said the interpreter .

BOOK I . ( FOLIO ), CHAPTER I . ( SPERM WHALE ).-- This whale , among the English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale , and the Physeter whale , and the Anvil Headed whale , is the present Cachalot of the French , and the Pottsfich of the Germans , and the Macrocephalus of the Long Words . He is , without doubt , the largest inhabitant of the globe ; the most formidable of all whales to encounter ; the most majestic in aspect ; and lastly , by far the most valuable in commerce ; he being the only creature from which that valuable substance , spermaceti , is obtained . All his peculiarities will , in many other places , be enlarged upon . It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do . Philologically considered , it is absurd . Some centuries ago , when the Sperm whale was almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality , and when his oil was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish ; in those days spermaceti , it would seem , was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale . It was the idea also , that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses . In those times , also , spermaceti was exceedingly scarce , not being used for light , but only as an ointment and medicament . It was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb . When , as I opine , in the course of time , the true nature of spermaceti became known , its original name was still retained by the dealers ; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity . And so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti was really derived .

For some time past , though at intervals only , the unaccompanied , secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen . But not all of them knew of his existence ; only a few of them , comparatively , had knowingly seen him ; while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him , was small indeed . For , owing to the large number of whale - cruisers ; the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference , many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes , so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch , to encounter a single news - telling sail of any sort ; the inordinate length of each separate voyage ; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home ; all these , with other circumstances , direct and indirect , long obstructed the spread through the whole world - wide whaling - fleet of the special individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick . It was hardly to be doubted , that several vessels reported to have encountered , at such or such a time , or on such or such a meridian , a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity , which whale , after doing great mischief to his assailants , had completely escaped them ; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption , I say , that the whale in question must have been no other than Moby Dick . Yet as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not unfrequent instances of great ferocity , cunning , and malice in the monster attacked ; therefore it was , that those who by accident ignorantly gave battle to Moby Dick ; such hunters , perhaps , for the most part , were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred , more , as it were , to the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large , than to the individual cause . In that way , mostly , the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded .

" Queequeg no care what god made him shark ," said the savage , agonizingly lifting his hand up and down ; " wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god ; but de god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin ."

Wet , drenched through , and shivering cold , despairing of ship or boat , we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on . The mist still spread over the sea , the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat . Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet , hollowing his hand to his ear . We all heard a faint creaking , as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by the storm . The sound came nearer and nearer ; the thick mists were dimly parted by a huge , vague form . Affrighted , we all sprang into the sea as the ship at last loomed into view , bearing right down upon us within a distance of not much more than its length .

Even as it was , I thought something of slipping out of the window , but it was the second floor back . I am no coward , but what to make of this head - peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension . Ignorance is the parent of fear , and being completely nonplussed and confounded about the stranger , I confess I was now as much afraid of him as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of night . In fact , I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then to address him , and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed inexplicable in him .

" No ," said Peleg , " and he hasn ' t been baptized right either , or it would have washed some of that devil ' s blue off his face ."

" A mariner sat in the shrouds one night , The wind was piping free ; Now bright , now dimmed , was the moonlight pale , And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale , As it floundered in the sea ." -- ELIZABETH OAKES SMITH .

The Castaway .

" The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the water - works at London Bridge , and the water roaring in its passage through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood gushing from the whale ' s heart ." -- PALEY ' S THEOLOGY .

With memories like these in him , and , moreover , given to a certain superstitiousness , as has been said ; the courage of this Starbuck which could , nevertheless , still flourish , must indeed have been extreme . But it was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized , and with such terrible experiences and remembrances as he had ; it was not in nature that these things should fail in latently engendering an element in him , which , under suitable circumstances , would break out from its confinement , and burn all his courage up . And brave as he might be , it was that sort of bravery chiefly , visible in some intrepid men , which , while generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas , or winds , or whales , or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world , yet cannot withstand those more terrific , because more spiritual terrors , which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged and mighty man .

Ship and boat diverged ; the cold , damp night breeze blew between ; a screaming gull flew overhead ; the two hulls wildly rolled ; we gave three heavy - hearted cheers , and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic .

" Who ' s Old Thunder ?" said I , again riveted with the insane earnestness of his manner .

" Good night , landlord ," said I , " you may go ."

"' Will you be so good as to bring the priest also , Don ?'

" Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him ; One would think the deep to be hoary ." -- JOB .

CHAPTER 53

Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me , I had noticed that the seamen at the main and mizzen - mast - heads were already drowsy . So that at last all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars , and for every swing that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman . The waves , too , nodded their indolent crests ; and across the wide trance of the sea , east nodded to west , and the sun over all .

Next morning , Monday , after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber , for a block , I settled my own and comrade ' s bill ; using , however , my comrade ' s money . The grinning landlord , as well as the boarders , seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between me and Queequeg -- especially as Peter Coffin ' s cock and bull stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person whom I now companied with .

As he mounted the deck , Ahab abruptly accosted him , without at all heeding what he had in his hand ; but in his broken lingo , the German soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale ; immediately turning the conversation to his lamp - feeder and oil can , with some remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in profound darkness -- his last drop of Bremen oil being gone , and not a single flying - fish yet captured to supply the deficiency ; concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically called a CLEAN one ( that is , an empty one ), well deserving the name of Jungfrau or the Virgin .

The Prophet .

Every whale - ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships , whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed , depends upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans . Thus , most letters never reach their mark ; and many are only received after attaining an age of two or three years or more .

Though many of the whales , as has been said , were in violent motion , yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor retreated , but collectively remained in one place . As is customary in those cases , the boats at once separated , each making for some one lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal . In about three minutes ' time , Queequeg ' s harpoon was flung ; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces , and then running away with us like light , steered straight for the heart of the herd . Though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such circumstances , is in no wise unprecedented ; and indeed is almost always more or less anticipated ; yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery . For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal , you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a delirious throb .

Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo , a gigantic , coal - black negro - savage , with a lion - like tread -- an Ahasuerus to behold . Suspended from his ears were two golden hoops , so large that the sailors called them ring - bolts , and would talk of securing the top - sail halyards to them . In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler , lying in a lonely bay on his native coast . And never having been anywhere in the world but in Africa , Nantucket , and the pagan harbors most frequented by whalemen ; and having now led for many years the bold life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what manner of men they shipped ; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues , and erect as a giraffe , moved about the decks in all the pomp of six feet five in his socks . There was a corporeal humility in looking up at him ; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress . Curious to tell , this imperial negro , Ahasuerus Daggoo , was the Squire of little Flask , who looked like a chess - man beside him . As for the residue of the Pequod ' s company , be it said , that at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the mast employed in the American whale fishery , are Americans born , though pretty nearly all the officers are . Herein it is the same with the American whale fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies , and the engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and Railroads . The same , I say , because in all these cases the native American liberally provides the brains , the rest of the world as generously supplying the muscles . No small number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores , where the outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores . In like manner , the Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London , put in at the Shetland Islands , to receive the full complement of their crew . Upon the passage homewards , they drop them there again . How it is , there is no telling , but Islanders seem to make the best whalemen . They were nearly all Islanders in the Pequod , ISOLATOES too , I call such , not acknowledging the common continent of men , but each ISOLATO living on a separate continent of his own . Yet now , federated along one keel , what a set these Isolatoes were ! An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles of the sea , and all the ends of the earth , accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay the world ' s grievances before that bar from which not very many of them ever come back . Black Little Pip -- he never did -- oh , no ! he went before . Poor Alabama boy ! On the grim Pequod ' s forecastle , ye shall ere long see him , beating his tambourine ; prelusive of the eternal time , when sent for , to the great quarter - deck on high , he was bid strike in with angels , and beat his tambourine in glory ; called a coward here , hailed a hero there !

Coffin ?-- Spouter ?-- Rather ominous in that particular connexion , thought I . But it is a common name in Nantucket , they say , and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there . As the light looked so dim , and the place , for the time , looked quiet enough , and the dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt district , and as the swinging sign had a poverty - stricken sort of creak to it , I thought that here was the very spot for cheap lodgings , and the best of pea coffee .

Almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enormous mass dropped into the sea , like Niagara ' s Table - Rock into the whirlpool ; the suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it , to far down her glittering copper ; and all caught their breath , as half swinging -- now over the sailors ' heads , and now over the water -- Daggoo , through a thick mist of spray , was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles , while poor , buried - alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea ! But hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away , when a naked figure with a boarding - sword in his hand , was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks . The next , a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue . One packed rush was made to the side , and every eye counted every ripple , as moment followed moment , and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen . Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside , and pushed a little off from the ship .

" Do with it ? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home ;-- what else ?"

Sunset .

" Broke ," said I --" BROKE , do you mean ?"

" Woo - hoo ! Wa - hee !" screamed the Gay - Header in reply , raising some old war - whoop to the skies ; as every oarsman in the strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading stroke which the eager Indian gave .

" Aye , aye , I thought so . Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship ."

Folding back the counterpane , I stooped over the bed . Though none of the most elegant , it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well . I then glanced round the room ; and besides the bedstead and centre table , could see no other furniture belonging to the place , but a rude shelf , the four walls , and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale . Of things not properly belonging to the room , there was a hammock lashed up , and thrown upon the floor in one corner ; also a large seaman ' s bag , containing the harpooneer ' s wardrobe , no doubt in lieu of a land trunk . Likewise , there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf over the fire - place , and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed .

Heads or Tails .

Bethink yourself also of another thing . When two large , loaded Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks , what do the sailors do ? They do not suspend between them , at the point of coming contact , any merely hard substance , like iron or wood . No , they hold there a large , round wad of tow and cork , enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox - hide . That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow - bars . By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at . But supplementary to this , it has hypothetically occurred to me , that as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them , capable , at will , of distension or contraction ; and as the Sperm Whale , as far as I know , has no such provision in him ; considering , too , the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the surface , and anon swims with it high elevated out of the water ; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope ; considering the unique interior of his head ; it has hypothetically occurred to me , I say , that those mystical lung - celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with the outer air , so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and contraction . If this be so , fancy the irresistibleness of that might , to which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes .

" You said up there , didn ' t you ? and now look yourself , and see where your tongs are pointing . But , perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber ' s hole , cook ; but , no , no , cook , you don ' t get there , except you go the regular way , round by the rigging . It ' s a ticklish business , but must be done , or else it ' s no go . But none of us are in heaven yet . Drop your tongs , cook , and hear my orders . Do ye hear ? Hold your hat in one hand , and clap t ' other a ' top of your heart , when I ' m giving my orders , cook . What ! that your heart , there ?-- that ' s your gizzard ! Aloft ! aloft !-- that ' s it -- now you have it . Hold it there now , and pay attention ."

" On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie , Don ; but -- I crave your courtesy -- may be , you shall soon hear further of all that . Now , gentlemen , in square - sail brigs and three - masted ships , well - nigh as large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far Manilla ; this Lakeman , in the land - locked heart of our America , had yet been nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly connected with the open ocean . For in their interflowing aggregate , those grand fresh - water seas of ours ,-- Erie , and Ontario , and Huron , and Superior , and Michigan ,-- possess an ocean - like expansiveness , with many of the ocean ' s noblest traits ; with many of its rimmed varieties of races and of climes . They contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles , even as the Polynesian waters do ; in large part , are shored by two great contrasting nations , as the Atlantic is ; they furnish long maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East , dotted all round their banks ; here and there are frowned upon by batteries , and by the goat - like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw ; they have heard the fleet thunderings of naval victories ; at intervals , they yield their beaches to wild barbarians , whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams ; for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests , where the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies ; those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey , and silken creatures whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors ; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland , as well as Winnebago villages ; they float alike the full - rigged merchant ship , the armed cruiser of the State , the steamer , and the beech canoe ; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as direful as any that lash the salted wave ; they know what shipwrecks are , for out of sight of land , however inland , they have drowned full many a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew . Thus , gentlemen , though an inlander , Steelkilt was wild - ocean born , and wild - ocean nurtured ; as much of an audacious mariner as any . And for Radney , though in his infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach , to nurse at his maternal sea ; though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific ; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods seaman , fresh from the latitudes of buck - horn handled bowie - knives . Yet was this Nantucketer a man with some good - hearted traits ; and this Lakeman , a mariner , who though a sort of devil indeed , might yet by inflexible firmness , only tempered by that common decency of human recognition which is the meanest slave ' s right ; thus treated , this Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile . At all events , he had proved so thus far ; but Radney was doomed and made mad , and Steelkilt -- but , gentlemen , you shall hear .

Instantly the captain ran forward , and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the cutting - tackles , and at once cast loose the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship .

Another thing . Flask was the last person down at the dinner , and Flask is the first man up . Consider ! For hereby Flask ' s dinner was badly jammed in point of time . Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him ; and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear . If Stubb even , who is but a peg higher than Flask , happens to have but a small appetite , and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast , then Flask must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day ; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck . Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private , that ever since he had arisen to the dignity of an officer , from that moment he had never known what it was to be otherwise than hungry , more or less . For what he ate did not so much relieve his hunger , as keep it immortal in him . Peace and satisfaction , thought Flask , have for ever departed from my stomach . I am an officer ; but , how I wish I could fish a bit of old - fashioned beef in the forecastle , as I used to when I was before the mast . There ' s the fruits of promotion now ; there ' s the vanity of glory : there ' s the insanity of life ! Besides , if it were so that any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask ' s official capacity , all that sailor had to do , in order to obtain ample vengeance , was to go aft at dinner - time , and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky - light , sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab .

Thus the whale - line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils , twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction . All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions ; so that to the timid eye of the landsman , they seem as Indian jugglers , with the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs . Nor can any son of mortal woman , for the first time , seat himself amid those hempen intricacies , and while straining his utmost at the oar , bethink him that at any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted , and all these horrible contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings ; he cannot be thus circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones to quiver in him like a shaken jelly . Yet habit -- strange thing ! what cannot habit accomplish ?-- Gayer sallies , more merry mirth , better jokes , and brighter repartees , you never heard over your mahogany , than you will hear over the half - inch white cedar of the whale - boat , when thus hung in hangman ' s nooses ; and , like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward , the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death , with a halter around every neck , as you may say .

" Ah , my dear fellow , you can ' t fool us that way -- you can ' t fool us . It is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him ."

" WHALE . ... It is more immediately from the Dut . and Ger . WALLEN ; A . S . WALW - IAN , to roll , to wallow ." -- RICHARDSON ' S DICTIONARY

So fare thee well , poor devil of a Sub - Sub , whose commentator I am . Thou belongest to that hopeless , sallow tribe which no wine of this world will ever warm ; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy - strong ; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit , and feel poor - devilish , too ; and grow convivial upon tears ; and say to them bluntly , with full eyes and empty glasses , and in not altogether unpleasant sadness -- Give it up , Sub - Subs ! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world , by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless ! Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye ! But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal - mast with your hearts ; for your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven - storied heavens , and making refugees of long - pampered Gabriel , Michael , and Raphael , against your coming . Here ye strike but splintered hearts together -- there , ye shall strike unsplinterable glasses !

" Do you is all sharks , and by natur wery woracious , yet I zay to you , fellow - critters , dat dat woraciousness --' top dat dam slappin ' ob de tail ! How you tink to hear , spose you keep up such a dam slappin ' and bitin ' dare ?"

Now comes the Baling of the Case . But to comprehend it aright , you must know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated upon .

All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air . But it bade fair to outstrip them ; it flew on and on , as a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the hills .

The Specksynder .

" Mrs . Hussey ," said I , " he ' s ALIVE at all events ; so leave us , if you please , and I will see to this strange affair myself ."

PORTUGUESE SAILOR . How the sea rolls swashing ' gainst the side ! Stand by for reefing , hearties ! the winds are just crossing swords , pell - mell they ' ll go lunging presently .

But there was no time for shuddering , for now the savage went about something that completely fascinated my attention , and convinced me that he must indeed be a heathen . Going to his heavy grego , or wrapall , or dreadnaught , which he had previously hung on a chair , he fumbled in the pockets , and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch on its back , and exactly the colour of a three days ' old Congo baby . Remembering the embalmed head , at first I almost thought that this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner . But seeing that it was not at all limber , and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony , I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol , which indeed it proved to be . For now the savage goes up to the empty fire - place , and removing the papered fire - board , sets up this little hunch - backed image , like a tenpin , between the andirons . The chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty , so that I thought this fire - place made a very appropriate little shrine or chapel for his Congo idol .

"' What are you making there ?' said a shipmate .

Returning from my first morning stroll , I again sallied out upon this special errand . The sky had changed from clear , sunny cold , to driving sleet and mist . Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called bearskin , I fought my way against the stubborn storm . Entering , I found a small scattered congregation of sailors , and sailors ' wives and widows . A muffled silence reigned , only broken at times by the shrieks of the storm . Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from the other , as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable . The chaplain had not yet arrived ; and there these silent islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets , with black borders , masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit . Three of them ran something like the following , but I do not pretend to quote :--

Tashtego stood in the bows . He was full of the fire of the hunt . He hated Pip for a poltroon . Snatching the boat - knife from its sheath , he suspended its sharp edge over the line , and turning towards Stubb , exclaimed interrogatively , " Cut ?" Meantime Pip ' s blue , choked face plainly looked , Do , for God ' s sake ! All passed in a flash . In less than half a minute , this entire thing happened .

CHAPTER 60

" Who - e debel you ?" -- he at last said --" you no speak - e , dam - me , I kill - e ." And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the dark .

Stubb ' s exordium to his crew is given here at large , because he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general , and especially in inculcating the religion of rowing . But you must not suppose from this specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with his congregation . Not at all ; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity . He would say the most terrific things to his crew , in a tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury , and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a spice to the fun , that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without pulling for dear life , and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing . Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself , so loungingly managed his steering - oar , and so broadly gaped -- open - mouthed at times -- that the mere sight of such a yawning commander , by sheer force of contrast , acted like a charm upon the crew . Then again , Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists , whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous , as to put all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them .

TASHTEGO . ( QUIETLY SMOKING ) That ' s a white man ; he calls that fun : humph ! I save my sweat .

" With what ?" shouted I .

The Dart .

It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman , that a most significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod ' s crew ; an event most lamentable ; and which ended in providing the sometimes madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own .

But no more of this blubbering now , we are going a - whaling , and there is plenty of that yet to come . Let us scrape the ice from our frosted feet , and see what sort of a place this " Spouter " may be .

I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia ; expressing the idea very plainly , so that he could take it in . He said no ; only upon one memorable occasion . It was after a great feast given by his father the king , on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o ' clock in the afternoon , and all cooked and eaten that very evening .

But before going further , it is important to mention here , that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance , yet it is seldom done ; and when done , is still less frequently successful , on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as compared with the lance , which in effect become serious drawbacks . As a general thing , therefore , you must first get fast to a whale , before any pitchpoling comes into play .

' Twas not so hard a task . I thought to find one stubborn , at the least ; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels , and they revolve . Or , if you will , like so many ant - hills of powder , they all stand before me ; and I their match . Oh , hard ! that to fire others , the match itself must needs be wasting ! What I ' ve dared , I ' ve willed ; and what I ' ve willed , I ' ll do ! They think me mad -- Starbuck does ; but I ' m demoniac , I am madness maddened ! That wild madness that ' s only calm to comprehend itself ! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered ; and -- Aye ! I lost this leg . I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer . Now , then , be the prophet and the fulfiller one . That ' s more than ye , ye great gods , ever were . I laugh and hoot at ye , ye cricket - players , ye pugilists , ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes ! I will not say as schoolboys do to bullies -- Take some one of your own size ; don ' t pommel ME ! No , ye ' ve knocked me down , and I am up again ; but YE have run and hidden . Come forth from behind your cotton bags ! I have no long gun to reach ye . Come , Ahab ' s compliments to ye ; come and see if ye can swerve me . Swerve me ? ye cannot swerve me , else ye swerve yourselves ! man has ye there . Swerve me ? The path to my fixed purpose is laid with iron rails , whereon my soul is grooved to run . Over unsounded gorges , through the rifled hearts of mountains , under torrents ' beds , unerringly I rush ! Naught ' s an obstacle , naught ' s an angle to the iron way !

" No , no , no ; I wasn ' t aware of that ," said Elijah , slowly and wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg , with the most unaccountable glances .

Thus much being said , attend now , I pray you , to that marvellous and -- in this particular instance -- almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Whale ' s great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped .

" No , cook ; go on , go on ."

" Man overboard !" cried Daggoo , who amid the general consternation first came to his senses . " Swing the bucket this way !" and putting one foot into it , so as the better to secure his slippery hand - hold on the whip itself , the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head , almost before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom . Meantime , there was a terrible tumult . Looking over the side , they saw the before lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea , as if that moment seized with some momentous idea ; whereas it was only the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which he had sunk ." Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg -- that ' s who ye are speaking to , young man . It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted out for the voyage , and supplied with all her needs , including crew . We are part owners and agents . But as I was going to say , if thou wantest to know what whaling is , as thou tellest ye do , I can put ye in a way of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it , past backing out . Clap eye on Captain Ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he has only one leg ."

I will now refer you to Langsdorff ' s Voyages for a little circumstance in point , peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof . Langsdorff , you must know by the way , was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern ' s famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century . Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter :

Meantime , they hauled more and more upon their lines , till close flanking him on both sides , Stubb answered Flask with lance for lance ; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went , while the multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale ' s body , rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled , thirstily drinking at every new gash , as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains that poured from the smitten rock .

" God bless ye , and have ye in His holy keeping , men ," murmured old Bildad , almost incoherently . " I hope ye ' ll have fine weather now , so that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye -- a pleasant sun is all he needs , and ye ' ll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go . Be careful in the hunt , ye mates . Don ' t stave the boats needlessly , ye harpooneers ; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent . within the year . Don ' t forget your prayers , either . Mr . Starbuck , mind that cooper don ' t waste the spare staves . Oh ! the sail - needles are in the green locker ! Don ' t whale it too much a ' Lord ' s days , men ; but don ' t miss a fair chance either , that ' s rejecting Heaven ' s good gifts . Have an eye to the molasses tierce , Mr . Stubb ; it was a little leaky , I thought . If ye touch at the islands , Mr . Flask , beware of fornication . Good - bye , good - bye ! Don ' t keep that cheese too long down in the hold , Mr . Starbuck ; it ' ll spoil . Be careful with the butter -- twenty cents the pound it was , and mind ye , if --"

It was during the more pleasant weather , that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast - head came round .

" Cough be damned ! Pass along that return bucket ."

" Come hither to me -- hither , hither ," said Peleg , with a significance in his eye that almost startled me . " Look ye , lad ; never say that on board the Pequod . Never say it anywhere . Captain Ahab did not name himself . ' Twas a foolish , ignorant whim of his crazy , widowed mother , who died when he was only a twelvemonth old . And yet the old squaw Tistig , at Gayhead , said that the name would somehow prove prophetic . And , perhaps , other fools like her may tell thee the same . I wish to warn thee . It ' s a lie . I know Captain Ahab well ; I ' ve sailed with him as mate years ago ; I know what he is -- a good man -- not a pious , good man , like Bildad , but a swearing good man -- something like me -- only there ' s a good deal more of him . Aye , aye , I know that he was never very jolly ; and I know that on the passage home , he was a little out of his mind for a spell ; but it was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump that brought that about , as any one might see . I know , too , that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale , he ' s been a kind of moody -- desperate moody , and savage sometimes ; but that will all pass off . And once for all , let me tell thee and assure thee , young man , it ' s better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one . So good - bye to thee -- and wrong not Captain Ahab , because he happens to have a wicked name . Besides , my boy , he has a wife -- not three voyages wedded -- a sweet , resigned girl . Think of that ; by that sweet girl that old man has a child : hold ye then there can be any utter , hopeless harm in Ahab ? No , no , my lad ; stricken , blasted , if he be , Ahab has his humanities !"

Then , again , in 1825 , Bernard Germain , Count de Lacepede , a great naturalist , published a scientific systemized whale book , wherein are several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan . All these are not only incorrect , but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale ( that is to say , the Right whale ), even Scoresby , a long experienced man as touching that species , declares not to have its counterpart in nature .

CHAPTER 59

Look now at Stubb ; a man who from his humorous , deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies , was specially qualified to excel in pitchpoling . Look at him ; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the flying boat ; wrapt in fleecy foam , the towing whale is forty feet ahead . Handling the long lance lightly , glancing twice or thrice along its length to see if it be exactly straight , Stubb whistlingly gathers up the coil of the warp in one hand , so as to secure its free end in his grasp , leaving the rest unobstructed . Then holding the lance full before his waistband ' s middle , he levels it at the whale ; when , covering him with it , he steadily depresses the butt - end in his hand , thereby elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm , fifteen feet in the air . He minds you somewhat of a juggler , balancing a long staff on his chin . Next moment with a rapid , nameless impulse , in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming distance , and quivers in the life spot of the whale . Instead of sparkling water , he now spouts red blood .

" On one occasion I saw two of these monsters ( whales ) probably male and female , slowly swimming , one after the other , within less than a stone ' s throw of the shore " ( Terra Del Fuego ), " over which the beech tree extended its branches ." -- DARWIN ' S VOYAGE OF A NATURALIST .

Now having a night , a day , and still another night following before me in New Bedford , ere I could embark for my destined port , it became a matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile . It was a very dubious - looking , nay , a very dark and dismal night , bitingly cold and cheerless . I knew no one in the place . With anxious grapnels I had sounded my pocket , and only brought up a few pieces of silver ,-- So , wherever you go , Ishmael , said I to myself , as I stood in the middle of a dreary street shouldering my bag , and comparing the gloom towards the north with the darkness towards the south -- wherever in your wisdom you may conclude to lodge for the night , my dear Ishmael , be sure to inquire the price , and don ' t be too particular .

Walking the deck with quick , side - lunging strides , Ahab commanded the t ' gallant sails and royals to be set , and every stunsail spread . The best man in the ship must take the helm . Then , with every mast - head manned , the piled - up craft rolled down before the wind . The strange , upheaving , lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows of so many sails , made the buoyant , hovering deck to feel like air beneath the feet ; while still she rushed along , as if two antagonistic influences were struggling in her -- one to mount direct to heaven , the other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal . And had you watched Ahab ' s face that night , you would have thought that in him also two different things were warring . While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck , every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin - tap . On life and death this old man walked . But though the ship so swiftly sped , and though from every eye , like arrows , the eager glances shot , yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night . Every sailor swore he saw it once , but not a second time .

" We have been at great trouble , and peril , and some expense , and is all that to go to the Duke ' s benefit ; we getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters ?"

Be it said , however , that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species . Where one of that sort go down , twenty Right Whales do . This difference in the species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale ; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton ; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free . But there are instances where , after the lapse of many hours or several days , the sunken whale again rises , more buoyant than in life . But the reason of this is obvious . Gases are generated in him ; he swells to a prodigious magnitude ; becomes a sort of animal balloon . A line - of - battle ship could hardly keep him under then . In the Shore Whaling , on soundings , among the Bays of New Zealand , when a Right Whale gives token of sinking , they fasten buoys to him , with plenty of rope ; so that when the body has gone down , they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again .

I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas , something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale - ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there . It may be worth while , therefore , previously to advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman . It is time to set the world right in this matter , by proving such pictures of the whale all wrong .

CHAPTER 70

" May be ; may be . But it ' s made a wise man of me , Flask . D ' ye see Ahab standing there , sideways looking over the stern ? Well , the best thing you can do , Flask , is to let the old man alone ; never speak to him , whatever he says . Halloa ! What ' s that he shouts ? Hark !"

" Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks , the infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over ; he rears his enormous head , and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him ; he rushes at the boats with his head ; they are propelled before him with vast swiftness , and sometimes utterly destroyed . ... It is a matter of great astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so interesting , and , in a commercial point of view , so important an animal ( as the Sperm Whale ) should have been so entirely neglected , or should have excited so little curiosity among the numerous , and many of them competent observers , that of late years , must have possessed the most abundant and the most convenient opportunities of witnessing their habitudes ." -- THOMAS BEALE ' S HISTORY OF THE SPERM WHALE , 1839 .

But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on board , as she did the last day , with a long oil - ladle in one hand , and a still longer whaling lance in the other . Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward . As for Bildad , he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed , and at every fresh arrival , down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper . Every once in a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den , roaring at the men down the hatchways , roaring up to the riggers at the mast - head , and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam .

It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale ' s prodigious head hanging to the Pequod ' s side . But we must let it continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it . For the present other matters press , and the best we can do now for the head , is to pray heaven the tackles may hold .

" But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct , he kept his own counsel ( at least till all was over ) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles of his heart . He was in Radney the chief mate ' s watch ; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than half way to meet his doom , after the scene at the rigging , he insisted , against the express counsel of the captain , upon resuming the head of his watch at night . Upon this , and one or two other circumstances , Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge .

I considered the matter a moment , and then up stairs we went , and I was ushered into a small room , cold as a clam , and furnished , sure enough , with a prodigious bed , almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep abreast .

The hours wore on ;-- Ahab now shut up within his cabin ; anon , pacing the deck , with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect .

" No , sir ; not yet ," said Stubb , emboldened , " I will not tamely be called a dog , sir ."

CHAPTER 17

ALL . The squall ! the squall ! jump , my jollies ! ( THEY SCATTER .)

" Where - away ?"

Secondly : The ship Union , also of Nantucket , was in the year 1807 totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset , but the authentic particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter , though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it .

But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order , a pale man , with a bandaged head , arrested them -- Radney the chief mate . Ever since the blow , he had lain in his berth ; but that morning , hearing the tumult on the deck , he had crept out , and thus far had watched the whole scene . Such was the state of his mouth , that he could hardly speak ; but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the captain dared not attempt , he snatched the rope and advanced to his pinioned foe .

" Dost know nothing at all about whaling , I dare say -- eh ?

Ere long , from his first visit in the air , he withdrew into his cabin . But after that morning , he was every day visible to the crew ; either standing in his pivot - hole , or seated upon an ivory stool he had ; or heavily walking the deck . As the sky grew less gloomy ; indeed , began to grow a little genial , he became still less and less a recluse ; as if , when the ship had sailed from home , nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded . And , by and by , it came to pass , that he was almost continually in the air ; but , as yet , for all that he said , or perceptibly did , on the at last sunny deck , he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast . But the Pequod was only making a passage now ; not regularly cruising ; nearly all whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to , so that there was little or nothing , out of himself , to employ or excite Ahab , now ; and thus chase away , for that one interval , the clouds that layer upon layer were piled upon his brow , as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon .

" I think I remember some such story as you were telling ," said Flask , when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the ship , " but I can ' t remember where ."

" He wants you to take a glass of wine with him ," said the interpreter .

BOOK I . ( FOLIO ), CHAPTER I . ( SPERM WHALE ).-- This whale , among the English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale , and the Physeter whale , and the Anvil Headed whale , is the present Cachalot of the French , and the Pottsfich of the Germans , and the Macrocephalus of the Long Words . He is , without doubt , the largest inhabitant of the globe ; the most formidable of all whales to encounter ; the most majestic in aspect ; and lastly , by far the most valuable in commerce ; he being the only creature from which that valuable substance , spermaceti , is obtained . All his peculiarities will , in many other places , be enlarged upon . It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do . Philologically considered , it is absurd . Some centuries ago , when the Sperm whale was almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality , and when his oil was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish ; in those days spermaceti , it would seem , was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale . It was the idea also , that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses . In those times , also , spermaceti was exceedingly scarce , not being used for light , but only as an ointment and medicament . It was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb . When , as I opine , in the course of time , the true nature of spermaceti became known , its original name was still retained by the dealers ; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity . And so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti was really derived .

For some time past , though at intervals only , the unaccompanied , secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen . But not all of them knew of his existence ; only a few of them , comparatively , had knowingly seen him ; while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him , was small indeed . For , owing to the large number of whale - cruisers ; the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference , many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes , so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch , to encounter a single news - telling sail of any sort ; the inordinate length of each separate voyage ; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home ; all these , with other circumstances , direct and indirect , long obstructed the spread through the whole world - wide whaling - fleet of the special individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick . It was hardly to be doubted , that several vessels reported to have encountered , at such or such a time , or on such or such a meridian , a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity , which whale , after doing great mischief to his assailants , had completely escaped them ; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption , I say , that the whale in question must have been no other than Moby Dick . Yet as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not unfrequent instances of great ferocity , cunning , and malice in the monster attacked ; therefore it was , that those who by accident ignorantly gave battle to Moby Dick ; such hunters , perhaps , for the most part , were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred , more , as it were , to the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large , than to the individual cause . In that way , mostly , the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded .

" Queequeg no care what god made him shark ," said the savage , agonizingly lifting his hand up and down ; " wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god ; but de god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin ."

Wet , drenched through , and shivering cold , despairing of ship or boat , we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on . The mist still spread over the sea , the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat . Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet , hollowing his hand to his ear . We all heard a faint creaking , as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by the storm . The sound came nearer and nearer ; the thick mists were dimly parted by a huge , vague form . Affrighted , we all sprang into the sea as the ship at last loomed into view , bearing right down upon us within a distance of not much more than its length .

Even as it was , I thought something of slipping out of the window , but it was the second floor back . I am no coward , but what to make of this head - peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension . Ignorance is the parent of fear , and being completely nonplussed and confounded about the stranger , I confess I was now as much afraid of him as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of night . In fact , I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then to address him , and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed inexplicable in him .

" No ," said Peleg , " and he hasn ' t been baptized right either , or it would have washed some of that devil ' s blue off his face ."

" A mariner sat in the shrouds one night , The wind was piping free ; Now bright , now dimmed , was the moonlight pale , And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale , As it floundered in the sea ." -- ELIZABETH OAKES SMITH .

The Castaway .

" The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the water - works at London Bridge , and the water roaring in its passage through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood gushing from the whale ' s heart ." -- PALEY ' S THEOLOGY .

With memories like these in him , and , moreover , given to a certain superstitiousness , as has been said ; the courage of this Starbuck which could , nevertheless , still flourish , must indeed have been extreme . But it was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized , and with such terrible experiences and remembrances as he had ; it was not in nature that these things should fail in latently engendering an element in him , which , under suitable circumstances , would break out from its confinement , and burn all his courage up . And brave as he might be , it was that sort of bravery chiefly , visible in some intrepid men , which , while generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas , or winds , or whales , or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world , yet cannot withstand those more terrific , because more spiritual terrors , which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged and mighty man .

Ship and boat diverged ; the cold , damp night breeze blew between ; a screaming gull flew overhead ; the two hulls wildly rolled ; we gave three heavy - hearted cheers , and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic .

" Who ' s Old Thunder ?" said I , again riveted with the insane earnestness of his manner .

" Good night , landlord ," said I , " you may go ."

"' Will you be so good as to bring the priest also , Don ?'

" Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him ; One would think the deep to be hoary ." -- JOB .

CHAPTER 53

Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me , I had noticed that the seamen at the main and mizzen - mast - heads were already drowsy . So that at last all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars , and for every swing that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman . The waves , too , nodded their indolent crests ; and across the wide trance of the sea , east nodded to west , and the sun over all .

Next morning , Monday , after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber , for a block , I settled my own and comrade ' s bill ; using , however , my comrade ' s money . The grinning landlord , as well as the boarders , seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between me and Queequeg -- especially as Peter Coffin ' s cock and bull stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person whom I now companied with .

As he mounted the deck , Ahab abruptly accosted him , without at all heeding what he had in his hand ; but in his broken lingo , the German soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale ; immediately turning the conversation to his lamp - feeder and oil can , with some remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in profound darkness -- his last drop of Bremen oil being gone , and not a single flying - fish yet captured to supply the deficiency ; concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically called a CLEAN one ( that is , an empty one ), well deserving the name of Jungfrau or the Virgin .

The Prophet .

Every whale - ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships , whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed , depends upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans . Thus , most letters never reach their mark ; and many are only received after attaining an age of two or three years or more .

Though many of the whales , as has been said , were in violent motion , yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor retreated , but collectively remained in one place . As is customary in those cases , the boats at once separated , each making for some one lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal . In about three minutes ' time , Queequeg ' s harpoon was flung ; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces , and then running away with us like light , steered straight for the heart of the herd . Though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such circumstances , is in no wise unprecedented ; and indeed is almost always more or less anticipated ; yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery . For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal , you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a delirious throb .

Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo , a gigantic , coal - black negro - savage , with a lion - like tread -- an Ahasuerus to behold . Suspended from his ears were two golden hoops , so large that the sailors called them ring - bolts , and would talk of securing the top - sail halyards to them . In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler , lying in a lonely bay on his native coast . And never having been anywhere in the world but in Africa , Nantucket , and the pagan harbors most frequented by whalemen ; and having now led for many years the bold life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what manner of men they shipped ; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues , and erect as a giraffe , moved about the decks in all the pomp of six feet five in his socks . There was a corporeal humility in looking up at him ; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress . Curious to tell , this imperial negro , Ahasuerus Daggoo , was the Squire of little Flask , who looked like a chess - man beside him . As for the residue of the Pequod ' s company , be it said , that at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the mast employed in the American whale fishery , are Americans born , though pretty nearly all the officers are . Herein it is the same with the American whale fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies , and the engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and Railroads . The same , I say , because in all these cases the native American liberally provides the brains , the rest of the world as generously supplying the muscles . No small number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores , where the outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores . In like manner , the Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London , put in at the Shetland Islands , to receive the full complement of their crew . Upon the passage homewards , they drop them there again . How it is , there is no telling , but Islanders seem to make the best whalemen . They were nearly all Islanders in the Pequod , ISOLATOES too , I call such , not acknowledging the common continent of men , but each ISOLATO living on a separate continent of his own . Yet now , federated along one keel , what a set these Isolatoes were ! An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles of the sea , and all the ends of the earth , accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay the world ' s grievances before that bar from which not very many of them ever come back . Black Little Pip -- he never did -- oh , no ! he went before . Poor Alabama boy ! On the grim Pequod ' s forecastle , ye shall ere long see him , beating his tambourine ; prelusive of the eternal time , when sent for , to the great quarter - deck on high , he was bid strike in with angels , and beat his tambourine in glory ; called a coward here , hailed a hero there !

Coffin ?-- Spouter ?-- Rather ominous in that particular connexion , thought I . But it is a common name in Nantucket , they say , and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there . As the light looked so dim , and the place , for the time , looked quiet enough , and the dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt district , and as the swinging sign had a poverty - stricken sort of creak to it , I thought that here was the very spot for cheap lodgings , and the best of pea coffee .

Almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enormous mass dropped into the sea , like Niagara ' s Table - Rock into the whirlpool ; the suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it , to far down her glittering copper ; and all caught their breath , as half swinging -- now over the sailors ' heads , and now over the water -- Daggoo , through a thick mist of spray , was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles , while poor , buried - alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea ! But hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away , when a naked figure with a boarding - sword in his hand , was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks . The next , a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue . One packed rush was made to the side , and every eye counted every ripple , as moment followed moment , and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen . Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside , and pushed a little off from the ship .

" Do with it ? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home ;-- what else ?"

Sunset .

" Broke ," said I --" BROKE , do you mean ?"

" Woo - hoo ! Wa - hee !" screamed the Gay - Header in reply , raising some old war - whoop to the skies ; as every oarsman in the strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading stroke which the eager Indian gave .

" Aye , aye , I thought so . Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship ."

Folding back the counterpane , I stooped over the bed . Though none of the most elegant , it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well . I then glanced round the room ; and besides the bedstead and centre table , could see no other furniture belonging to the place , but a rude shelf , the four walls , and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale . Of things not properly belonging to the room , there was a hammock lashed up , and thrown upon the floor in one corner ; also a large seaman ' s bag , containing the harpooneer ' s wardrobe , no doubt in lieu of a land trunk . Likewise , there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf over the fire - place , and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed .

Heads or Tails .

Bethink yourself also of another thing . When two large , loaded Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks , what do the sailors do ? They do not suspend between them , at the point of coming contact , any merely hard substance , like iron or wood . No , they hold there a large , round wad of tow and cork , enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox - hide . That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow - bars . By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at . But supplementary to this , it has hypothetically occurred to me , that as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them , capable , at will , of distension or contraction ; and as the Sperm Whale , as far as I know , has no such provision in him ; considering , too , the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the surface , and anon swims with it high elevated out of the water ; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope ; considering the unique interior of his head ; it has hypothetically occurred to me , I say , that those mystical lung - celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with the outer air , so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and contraction . If this be so , fancy the irresistibleness of that might , to which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes .

" You said up there , didn ' t you ? and now look yourself , and see where your tongs are pointing . But , perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber ' s hole , cook ; but , no , no , cook , you don ' t get there , except you go the regular way , round by the rigging . It ' s a ticklish business , but must be done , or else it ' s no go . But none of us are in heaven yet . Drop your tongs , cook , and hear my orders . Do ye hear ? Hold your hat in one hand , and clap t ' other a ' top of your heart , when I ' m giving my orders , cook . What ! that your heart , there ?-- that ' s your gizzard ! Aloft ! aloft !-- that ' s it -- now you have it . Hold it there now , and pay attention ."

" On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie , Don ; but -- I crave your courtesy -- may be , you shall soon hear further of all that . Now , gentlemen , in square - sail brigs and three - masted ships , well - nigh as large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far Manilla ; this Lakeman , in the land - locked heart of our America , had yet been nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly connected with the open ocean . For in their interflowing aggregate , those grand fresh - water seas of ours ,-- Erie , and Ontario , and Huron , and Superior , and Michigan ,-- possess an ocean - like expansiveness , with many of the ocean ' s noblest traits ; with many of its rimmed varieties of races and of climes . They contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles , even as the Polynesian waters do ; in large part , are shored by two great contrasting nations , as the Atlantic is ; they furnish long maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East , dotted all round their banks ; here and there are frowned upon by batteries , and by the goat - like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw ; they have heard the fleet thunderings of naval victories ; at intervals , they yield their beaches to wild barbarians , whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams ; for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests , where the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies ; those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey , and silken creatures whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors ; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland , as well as Winnebago villages ; they float alike the full - rigged merchant ship , the armed cruiser of the State , the steamer , and the beech canoe ; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as direful as any that lash the salted wave ; they know what shipwrecks are , for out of sight of land , however inland , they have drowned full many a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew . Thus , gentlemen , though an inlander , Steelkilt was wild - ocean born , and wild - ocean nurtured ; as much of an audacious mariner as any . And for Radney , though in his infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach , to nurse at his maternal sea ; though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific ; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods seaman , fresh from the latitudes of buck - horn handled bowie - knives . Yet was this Nantucketer a man with some good - hearted traits ; and this Lakeman , a mariner , who though a sort of devil indeed , might yet by inflexible firmness , only tempered by that common decency of human recognition which is the meanest slave ' s right ; thus treated , this Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile . At all events , he had proved so thus far ; but Radney was doomed and made mad , and Steelkilt -- but , gentlemen , you shall hear .

Instantly the captain ran forward , and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the cutting - tackles , and at once cast loose the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship .

Another thing . Flask was the last person down at the dinner , and Flask is the first man up . Consider ! For hereby Flask ' s dinner was badly jammed in point of time . Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him ; and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear . If Stubb even , who is but a peg higher than Flask , happens to have but a small appetite , and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast , then Flask must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day ; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck . Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private , that ever since he had arisen to the dignity of an officer , from that moment he had never known what it was to be otherwise than hungry , more or less . For what he ate did not so much relieve his hunger , as keep it immortal in him . Peace and satisfaction , thought Flask , have for ever departed from my stomach . I am an officer ; but , how I wish I could fish a bit of old - fashioned beef in the forecastle , as I used to when I was before the mast . There ' s the fruits of promotion now ; there ' s the vanity of glory : there ' s the insanity of life ! Besides , if it were so that any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask ' s official capacity , all that sailor had to do , in order to obtain ample vengeance , was to go aft at dinner - time , and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky - light , sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab .

Thus the whale - line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils , twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction . All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions ; so that to the timid eye of the landsman , they seem as Indian jugglers , with the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs . Nor can any son of mortal woman , for the first time , seat himself amid those hempen intricacies , and while straining his utmost at the oar , bethink him that at any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted , and all these horrible contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings ; he cannot be thus circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones to quiver in him like a shaken jelly . Yet habit -- strange thing ! what cannot habit accomplish ?-- Gayer sallies , more merry mirth , better jokes , and brighter repartees , you never heard over your mahogany , than you will hear over the half - inch white cedar of the whale - boat , when thus hung in hangman ' s nooses ; and , like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward , the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death , with a halter around every neck , as you may say .

" Ah , my dear fellow , you can ' t fool us that way -- you can ' t fool us . It is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him ."

" WHALE . ... It is more immediately from the Dut . and Ger . WALLEN ; A . S . WALW - IAN , to roll , to wallow ." -- RICHARDSON ' S DICTIONARY

So fare thee well , poor devil of a Sub - Sub , whose commentator I am . Thou belongest to that hopeless , sallow tribe which no wine of this world will ever warm ; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy - strong ; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit , and feel poor - devilish , too ; and grow convivial upon tears ; and say to them bluntly , with full eyes and empty glasses , and in not altogether unpleasant sadness -- Give it up , Sub - Subs ! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world , by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless ! Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye ! But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal - mast with your hearts ; for your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven - storied heavens , and making refugees of long - pampered Gabriel , Michael , and Raphael , against your coming . Here ye strike but splintered hearts together -- there , ye shall strike unsplinterable glasses !

" Do you is all sharks , and by natur wery woracious , yet I zay to you , fellow - critters , dat dat woraciousness --' top dat dam slappin ' ob de tail ! How you tink to hear , spose you keep up such a dam slappin ' and bitin ' dare ?"

Now comes the Baling of the Case . But to comprehend it aright , you must know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated upon .

All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air . But it bade fair to outstrip them ; it flew on and on , as a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the hills .

The Specksynder .

" Mrs . Hussey ," said I , " he ' s ALIVE at all events ; so leave us , if you please , and I will see to this strange affair myself ."

PORTUGUESE SAILOR . How the sea rolls swashing ' gainst the side ! Stand by for reefing , hearties ! the winds are just crossing swords , pell - mell they ' ll go lunging presently .

But there was no time for shuddering , for now the savage went about something that completely fascinated my attention , and convinced me that he must indeed be a heathen . Going to his heavy grego , or wrapall , or dreadnaught , which he had previously hung on a chair , he fumbled in the pockets , and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch on its back , and exactly the colour of a three days ' old Congo baby . Remembering the embalmed head , at first I almost thought that this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner . But seeing that it was not at all limber , and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony , I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol , which indeed it proved to be . For now the savage goes up to the empty fire - place , and removing the papered fire - board , sets up this little hunch - backed image , like a tenpin , between the andirons . The chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty , so that I thought this fire - place made a very appropriate little shrine or chapel for his Congo idol .

"' What are you making there ?' said a shipmate .

Returning from my first morning stroll , I again sallied out upon this special errand . The sky had changed from clear , sunny cold , to driving sleet and mist . Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called bearskin , I fought my way against the stubborn storm . Entering , I found a small scattered congregation of sailors , and sailors ' wives and widows . A muffled silence reigned , only broken at times by the shrieks of the storm . Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from the other , as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable . The chaplain had not yet arrived ; and there these silent islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets , with black borders , masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit . Three of them ran something like the following , but I do not pretend to quote :--

Tashtego stood in the bows . He was full of the fire of the hunt . He hated Pip for a poltroon . Snatching the boat - knife from its sheath , he suspended its sharp edge over the line , and turning towards Stubb , exclaimed interrogatively , " Cut ?" Meantime Pip ' s blue , choked face plainly looked , Do , for God ' s sake ! All passed in a flash . In less than half a minute , this entire thing happened .

CHAPTER 60

" Who - e debel you ?" -- he at last said --" you no speak - e , dam - me , I kill - e ." And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the dark .

Stubb ' s exordium to his crew is given here at large , because he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general , and especially in inculcating the religion of rowing . But you must not suppose from this specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with his congregation . Not at all ; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity . He would say the most terrific things to his crew , in a tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury , and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a spice to the fun , that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without pulling for dear life , and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing . Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself , so loungingly managed his steering - oar , and so broadly gaped -- open - mouthed at times -- that the mere sight of such a yawning commander , by sheer force of contrast , acted like a charm upon the crew . Then again , Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists , whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous , as to put all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them .

TASHTEGO . ( QUIETLY SMOKING ) That ' s a white man ; he calls that fun : humph ! I save my sweat .

" With what ?" shouted I .

The Dart .

It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman , that a most significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod ' s crew ; an event most lamentable ; and which ended in providing the sometimes madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own .

But no more of this blubbering now , we are going a - whaling , and there is plenty of that yet to come . Let us scrape the ice from our frosted feet , and see what sort of a place this " Spouter " may be .

I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia ; expressing the idea very plainly , so that he could take it in . He said no ; only upon one memorable occasion . It was after a great feast given by his father the king , on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o ' clock in the afternoon , and all cooked and eaten that very evening .

But before going further , it is important to mention here , that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance , yet it is seldom done ; and when done , is still less frequently successful , on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as compared with the lance , which in effect become serious drawbacks . As a general thing , therefore , you must first get fast to a whale , before any pitchpoling comes into play .

' Twas not so hard a task . I thought to find one stubborn , at the least ; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels , and they revolve . Or , if you will , like so many ant - hills of powder , they all stand before me ; and I their match . Oh , hard ! that to fire others , the match itself must needs be wasting ! What I ' ve dared , I ' ve willed ; and what I ' ve willed , I ' ll do ! They think me mad -- Starbuck does ; but I ' m demoniac , I am madness maddened ! That wild madness that ' s only calm to comprehend itself ! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered ; and -- Aye ! I lost this leg . I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer . Now , then , be the prophet and the fulfiller one . That ' s more than ye , ye great gods , ever were . I laugh and hoot at ye , ye cricket - players , ye pugilists , ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes ! I will not say as schoolboys do to bullies -- Take some one of your own size ; don ' t pommel ME ! No , ye ' ve knocked me down , and I am up again ; but YE have run and hidden . Come forth from behind your cotton bags ! I have no long gun to reach ye . Come , Ahab ' s compliments to ye ; come and see if ye can swerve me . Swerve me ? ye cannot swerve me , else ye swerve yourselves ! man has ye there . Swerve me ? The path to my fixed purpose is laid with iron rails , whereon my soul is grooved to run . Over unsounded gorges , through the rifled hearts of mountains , under torrents ' beds , unerringly I rush ! Naught ' s an obstacle , naught ' s an angle to the iron way !

" No , no , no ; I wasn ' t aware of that ," said Elijah , slowly and wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg , with the most unaccountable glances .

Thus much being said , attend now , I pray you , to that marvellous and -- in this particular instance -- almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Whale ' s great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped .

" No , cook ; go on , go on ."

" Man overboard !" cried Daggoo , who amid the general consternation first came to his senses . " Swing the bucket this way !" and putting one foot into it , so as the better to secure his slippery hand - hold on the whip itself , the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head , almost before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom . Meantime , there was a terrible tumult . Looking over the side , they saw the before lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea , as if that moment seized with some momentous idea ; whereas it was only the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which he had sunk ." Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg -- that ' s who ye are speaking to , young man . It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted out for the voyage , and supplied with all her needs , including crew . We are part owners and agents . But as I was going to say , if thou wantest to know what whaling is , as thou tellest ye do , I can put ye in a way of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it , past backing out . Clap eye on Captain Ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he has only one leg ."

I will now refer you to Langsdorff ' s Voyages for a little circumstance in point , peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof . Langsdorff , you must know by the way , was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern ' s famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century . Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter :

Meantime , they hauled more and more upon their lines , till close flanking him on both sides , Stubb answered Flask with lance for lance ; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went , while the multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale ' s body , rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled , thirstily drinking at every new gash , as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains that poured from the smitten rock .

" God bless ye , and have ye in His holy keeping , men ," murmured old Bildad , almost incoherently . " I hope ye ' ll have fine weather now , so that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye -- a pleasant sun is all he needs , and ye ' ll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go . Be careful in the hunt , ye mates . Don ' t stave the boats needlessly , ye harpooneers ; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent . within the year . Don ' t forget your prayers , either . Mr . Starbuck , mind that cooper don ' t waste the spare staves . Oh ! the sail - needles are in the green locker ! Don ' t whale it too much a ' Lord ' s days , men ; but don ' t miss a fair chance either , that ' s rejecting Heaven ' s good gifts . Have an eye to the molasses tierce , Mr . Stubb ; it was a little leaky , I thought . If ye touch at the islands , Mr . Flask , beware of fornication . Good - bye , good - bye ! Don ' t keep that cheese too long down in the hold , Mr . Starbuck ; it ' ll spoil . Be careful with the butter -- twenty cents the pound it was , and mind ye , if --"

It was during the more pleasant weather , that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast - head came round .

" Cough be damned ! Pass along that return bucket ."

" Come hither to me -- hither , hither ," said Peleg , with a significance in his eye that almost startled me . " Look ye , lad ; never say that on board the Pequod . Never say it anywhere . Captain Ahab did not name himself . ' Twas a foolish , ignorant whim of his crazy , widowed mother , who died when he was only a twelvemonth old . And yet the old squaw Tistig , at Gayhead , said that the name would somehow prove prophetic . And , perhaps , other fools like her may tell thee the same . I wish to warn thee . It ' s a lie . I know Captain Ahab well ; I ' ve sailed with him as mate years ago ; I know what he is -- a good man -- not a pious , good man , like Bildad , but a swearing good man -- something like me -- only there ' s a good deal more of him . Aye , aye , I know that he was never very jolly ; and I know that on the passage home , he was a little out of his mind for a spell ; but it was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump that brought that about , as any one might see . I know , too , that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale , he ' s been a kind of moody -- desperate moody , and savage sometimes ; but that will all pass off . And once for all , let me tell thee and assure thee , young man , it ' s better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one . So good - bye to thee -- and wrong not Captain Ahab , because he happens to have a wicked name . Besides , my boy , he has a wife -- not three voyages wedded -- a sweet , resigned girl . Think of that ; by that sweet girl that old man has a child : hold ye then there can be any utter , hopeless harm in Ahab ? No , no , my lad ; stricken , blasted , if he be , Ahab has his humanities !"

Then , again , in 1825 , Bernard Germain , Count de Lacepede , a great naturalist , published a scientific systemized whale book , wherein are several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan . All these are not only incorrect , but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale ( that is to say , the Right whale ), even Scoresby , a long experienced man as touching that species , declares not to have its counterpart in nature .

CHAPTER 59

Look now at Stubb ; a man who from his humorous , deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies , was specially qualified to excel in pitchpoling . Look at him ; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the flying boat ; wrapt in fleecy foam , the towing whale is forty feet ahead . Handling the long lance lightly , glancing twice or thrice along its length to see if it be exactly straight , Stubb whistlingly gathers up the coil of the warp in one hand , so as to secure its free end in his grasp , leaving the rest unobstructed . Then holding the lance full before his waistband ' s middle , he levels it at the whale ; when , covering him with it , he steadily depresses the butt - end in his hand , thereby elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm , fifteen feet in the air . He minds you somewhat of a juggler , balancing a long staff on his chin . Next moment with a rapid , nameless impulse , in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming distance , and quivers in the life spot of the whale . Instead of sparkling water , he now spouts red blood .

" On one occasion I saw two of these monsters ( whales ) probably male and female , slowly swimming , one after the other , within less than a stone ' s throw of the shore " ( Terra Del Fuego ), " over which the beech tree extended its branches ." -- DARWIN ' S VOYAGE OF A NATURALIST .

Now having a night , a day , and still another night following before me in New Bedford , ere I could embark for my destined port , it became a matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile . It was a very dubious - looking , nay , a very dark and dismal night , bitingly cold and cheerless . I knew no one in the place . With anxious grapnels I had sounded my pocket , and only brought up a few pieces of silver ,-- So , wherever you go , Ishmael , said I to myself , as I stood in the middle of a dreary street shouldering my bag , and comparing the gloom towards the north with the darkness towards the south -- wherever in your wisdom you may conclude to lodge for the night , my dear Ishmael , be sure to inquire the price , and don ' t be too particular .

Walking the deck with quick , side - lunging strides , Ahab commanded the t ' gallant sails and royals to be set , and every stunsail spread . The best man in the ship must take the helm . Then , with every mast - head manned , the piled - up craft rolled down before the wind . The strange , upheaving , lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows of so many sails , made the buoyant , hovering deck to feel like air beneath the feet ; while still she rushed along , as if two antagonistic influences were struggling in her -- one to mount direct to heaven , the other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal . And had you watched Ahab ' s face that night , you would have thought that in him also two different things were warring . While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck , every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin - tap . On life and death this old man walked . But though the ship so swiftly sped , and though from every eye , like arrows , the eager glances shot , yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night . Every sailor swore he saw it once , but not a second time .

" We have been at great trouble , and peril , and some expense , and is all that to go to the Duke ' s benefit ; we getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters ?"

Be it said , however , that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species . Where one of that sort go down , twenty Right Whales do . This difference in the species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale ; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton ; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free . But there are instances where , after the lapse of many hours or several days , the sunken whale again rises , more buoyant than in life . But the reason of this is obvious . Gases are generated in him ; he swells to a prodigious magnitude ; becomes a sort of animal balloon . A line - of - battle ship could hardly keep him under then . In the Shore Whaling , on soundings , among the Bays of New Zealand , when a Right Whale gives token of sinking , they fasten buoys to him , with plenty of rope ; so that when the body has gone down , they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again .

I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas , something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale - ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there . It may be worth while , therefore , previously to advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman . It is time to set the world right in this matter , by proving such pictures of the whale all wrong .

CHAPTER 70

" May be ; may be . But it ' s made a wise man of me , Flask . D ' ye see Ahab standing there , sideways looking over the stern ? Well , the best thing you can do , Flask , is to let the old man alone ; never speak to him , whatever he says . Halloa ! What ' s that he shouts ? Hark !"

" Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks , the infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over ; he rears his enormous head , and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him ; he rushes at the boats with his head ; they are propelled before him with vast swiftness , and sometimes utterly destroyed . ... It is a matter of great astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so interesting , and , in a commercial point of view , so important an animal ( as the Sperm Whale ) should have been so entirely neglected , or should have excited so little curiosity among the numerous , and many of them competent observers , that of late years , must have possessed the most abundant and the most convenient opportunities of witnessing their habitudes ." -- THOMAS BEALE ' S HISTORY OF THE SPERM WHALE , 1839 .

But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on board , as she did the last day , with a long oil - ladle in one hand , and a still longer whaling lance in the other . Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward . As for Bildad , he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed , and at every fresh arrival , down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper . Every once in a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den , roaring at the men down the hatchways , roaring up to the riggers at the mast - head , and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam .

It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale ' s prodigious head hanging to the Pequod ' s side . But we must let it continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it . For the present other matters press , and the best we can do now for the head , is to pray heaven the tackles may hold .

" But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct , he kept his own counsel ( at least till all was over ) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles of his heart . He was in Radney the chief mate ' s watch ; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than half way to meet his doom , after the scene at the rigging , he insisted , against the express counsel of the captain , upon resuming the head of his watch at night . Upon this , and one or two other circumstances , Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge .

I considered the matter a moment , and then up stairs we went , and I was ushered into a small room , cold as a clam , and furnished , sure enough , with a prodigious bed , almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep abreast .

The hours wore on ;-- Ahab now shut up within his cabin ; anon , pacing the deck , with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect .

" No , sir ; not yet ," said Stubb , emboldened , " I will not tamely be called a dog , sir ."

CHAPTER 17

ALL . The squall ! the squall ! jump , my jollies ! ( THEY SCATTER .)

" Where - away ?"

Secondly : The ship Union , also of Nantucket , was in the year 1807 totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset , but the authentic particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter , though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it .

But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order , a pale man , with a bandaged head , arrested them -- Radney the chief mate . Ever since the blow , he had lain in his berth ; but that morning , hearing the tumult on the deck , he had crept out , and thus far had watched the whole scene . Such was the state of his mouth , that he could hardly speak ; but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the captain dared not attempt , he snatched the rope and advanced to his pinioned foe .

" Dost know nothing at all about whaling , I dare say -- eh ?

Ere long , from his first visit in the air , he withdrew into his cabin . But after that morning , he was every day visible to the crew ; either standing in his pivot - hole , or seated upon an ivory stool he had ; or heavily walking the deck . As the sky grew less gloomy ; indeed , began to grow a little genial , he became still less and less a recluse ; as if , when the ship had sailed from home , nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded . And , by and by , it came to pass , that he was almost continually in the air ; but , as yet , for all that he said , or perceptibly did , on the at last sunny deck , he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast . But the Pequod was only making a passage now ; not regularly cruising ; nearly all whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to , so that there was little or nothing , out of himself , to employ or excite Ahab , now ; and thus chase away , for that one interval , the clouds that layer upon layer were piled upon his brow , as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon .

" I think I remember some such story as you were telling ," said Flask , when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the ship , " but I can ' t remember where ."

" He wants you to take a glass of wine with him ," said the interpreter .

BOOK I . ( FOLIO ), CHAPTER I . ( SPERM WHALE ).-- This whale , among the English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale , and the Physeter whale , and the Anvil Headed whale , is the present Cachalot of the French , and the Pottsfich of the Germans , and the Macrocephalus of the Long Words . He is , without doubt , the largest inhabitant of the globe ; the most formidable of all whales to encounter ; the most majestic in aspect ; and lastly , by far the most valuable in commerce ; he being the only creature from which that valuable substance , spermaceti , is obtained . All his peculiarities will , in many other places , be enlarged upon . It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do . Philologically considered , it is absurd . Some centuries ago , when the Sperm whale was almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality , and when his oil was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish ; in those days spermaceti , it would seem , was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale . It was the idea also , that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses . In those times , also , spermaceti was exceedingly scarce , not being used for light , but only as an ointment and medicament . It was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb . When , as I opine , in the course of time , the true nature of spermaceti became known , its original name was still retained by the dealers ; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity . And so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti was really derived .

For some time past , though at intervals only , the unaccompanied , secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen . But not all of them knew of his existence ; only a few of them , comparatively , had knowingly seen him ; while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him , was small indeed . For , owing to the large number of whale - cruisers ; the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference , many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes , so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch , to encounter a single news - telling sail of any sort ; the inordinate length of each separate voyage ; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home ; all these , with other circumstances , direct and indirect , long obstructed the spread through the whole world - wide whaling - fleet of the special individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick . It was hardly to be doubted , that several vessels reported to have encountered , at such or such a time , or on such or such a meridian , a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity , which whale , after doing great mischief to his assailants , had completely escaped them ; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption , I say , that the whale in question must have been no other than Moby Dick . Yet as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not unfrequent instances of great ferocity , cunning , and malice in the monster attacked ; therefore it was , that those who by accident ignorantly gave battle to Moby Dick ; such hunters , perhaps , for the most part , were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred , more , as it were , to the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large , than to the individual cause . In that way , mostly , the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded .

" Queequeg no care what god made him shark ," said the savage , agonizingly lifting his hand up and down ; " wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god ; but de god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin ."

Wet , drenched through , and shivering cold , despairing of ship or boat , we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on . The mist still spread over the sea , the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat . Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet , hollowing his hand to his ear . We all heard a faint creaking , as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by the storm . The sound came nearer and nearer ; the thick mists were dimly parted by a huge , vague form . Affrighted , we all sprang into the sea as the ship at last loomed into view , bearing right down upon us within a distance of not much more than its length .

Even as it was , I thought something of slipping out of the window , but it was the second floor back . I am no coward , but what to make of this head - peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension . Ignorance is the parent of fear , and being completely nonplussed and confounded about the stranger , I confess I was now as much afraid of him as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of night . In fact , I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then to address him , and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed inexplicable in him .

" No ," said Peleg , " and he hasn ' t been baptized right either , or it would have washed some of that devil ' s blue off his face ."

" A mariner sat in the shrouds one night , The wind was piping free ; Now bright , now dimmed , was the moonlight pale , And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale , As it floundered in the sea ." -- ELIZABETH OAKES SMITH .

The Castaway .

" The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the water - works at London Bridge , and the water roaring in its passage through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood gushing from the whale ' s heart ." -- PALEY ' S THEOLOGY .

With memories like these in him , and , moreover , given to a certain superstitiousness , as has been said ; the courage of this Starbuck which could , nevertheless , still flourish , must indeed have been extreme . But it was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized , and with such terrible experiences and remembrances as he had ; it was not in nature that these things should fail in latently engendering an element in him , which , under suitable circumstances , would break out from its confinement , and burn all his courage up . And brave as he might be , it was that sort of bravery chiefly , visible in some intrepid men , which , while generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas , or winds , or whales , or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world , yet cannot withstand those more terrific , because more spiritual terrors , which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged and mighty man .

Ship and boat diverged ; the cold , damp night breeze blew between ; a screaming gull flew overhead ; the two hulls wildly rolled ; we gave three heavy - hearted cheers , and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic .

" Who ' s Old Thunder ?" said I , again riveted with the insane earnestness of his manner .

" Good night , landlord ," said I , " you may go ."

"' Will you be so good as to bring the priest also , Don ?'

" Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him ; One would think the deep to be hoary ." -- JOB .

CHAPTER 53

Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me , I had noticed that the seamen at the main and mizzen - mast - heads were already drowsy . So that at last all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars , and for every swing that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman . The waves , too , nodded their indolent crests ; and across the wide trance of the sea , east nodded to west , and the sun over all .

Next morning , Monday , after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber , for a block , I settled my own and comrade ' s bill ; using , however , my comrade ' s money . The grinning landlord , as well as the boarders , seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between me and Queequeg -- especially as Peter Coffin ' s cock and bull stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person whom I now companied with .

As he mounted the deck , Ahab abruptly accosted him , without at all heeding what he had in his hand ; but in his broken lingo , the German soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale ; immediately turning the conversation to his lamp - feeder and oil can , with some remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in profound darkness -- his last drop of Bremen oil being gone , and not a single flying - fish yet captured to supply the deficiency ; concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically called a CLEAN one ( that is , an empty one ), well deserving the name of Jungfrau or the Virgin .

The Prophet .

Every whale - ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships , whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed , depends upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans . Thus , most letters never reach their mark ; and many are only received after attaining an age of two or three years or more .

Though many of the whales , as has been said , were in violent motion , yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor retreated , but collectively remained in one place . As is customary in those cases , the boats at once separated , each making for some one lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal . In about three minutes ' time , Queequeg ' s harpoon was flung ; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces , and then running away with us like light , steered straight for the heart of the herd . Though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such circumstances , is in no wise unprecedented ; and indeed is almost always more or less anticipated ; yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery . For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal , you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a delirious throb .

Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo , a gigantic , coal - black negro - savage , with a lion - like tread -- an Ahasuerus to behold . Suspended from his ears were two golden hoops , so large that the sailors called them ring - bolts , and would talk of securing the top - sail halyards to them . In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler , lying in a lonely bay on his native coast . And never having been anywhere in the world but in Africa , Nantucket , and the pagan harbors most frequented by whalemen ; and having now led for many years the bold life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what manner of men they shipped ; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues , and erect as a giraffe , moved about the decks in all the pomp of six feet five in his socks . There was a corporeal humility in looking up at him ; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress . Curious to tell , this imperial negro , Ahasuerus Daggoo , was the Squire of little Flask , who looked like a chess - man beside him . As for the residue of the Pequod ' s company , be it said , that at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the mast employed in the American whale fishery , are Americans born , though pretty nearly all the officers are . Herein it is the same with the American whale fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies , and the engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and Railroads . The same , I say , because in all these cases the native American liberally provides the brains , the rest of the world as generously supplying the muscles . No small number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores , where the outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores . In like manner , the Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London , put in at the Shetland Islands , to receive the full complement of their crew . Upon the passage homewards , they drop them there again . How it is , there is no telling , but Islanders seem to make the best whalemen . They were nearly all Islanders in the Pequod , ISOLATOES too , I call such , not acknowledging the common continent of men , but each ISOLATO living on a separate continent of his own . Yet now , federated along one keel , what a set these Isolatoes were ! An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles of the sea , and all the ends of the earth , accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay the world ' s grievances before that bar from which not very many of them ever come back . Black Little Pip -- he never did -- oh , no ! he went before . Poor Alabama boy ! On the grim Pequod ' s forecastle , ye shall ere long see him , beating his tambourine ; prelusive of the eternal time , when sent for , to the great quarter - deck on high , he was bid strike in with angels , and beat his tambourine in glory ; called a coward here , hailed a hero there !

Coffin ?-- Spouter ?-- Rather ominous in that particular connexion , thought I . But it is a common name in Nantucket , they say , and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there . As the light looked so dim , and the place , for the time , looked quiet enough , and the dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt district , and as the swinging sign had a poverty - stricken sort of creak to it , I thought that here was the very spot for cheap lodgings , and the best of pea coffee .

Almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enormous mass dropped into the sea , like Niagara ' s Table - Rock into the whirlpool ; the suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it , to far down her glittering copper ; and all caught their breath , as half swinging -- now over the sailors ' heads , and now over the water -- Daggoo , through a thick mist of spray , was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles , while poor , buried - alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea ! But hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away , when a naked figure with a boarding - sword in his hand , was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks . The next , a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue . One packed rush was made to the side , and every eye counted every ripple , as moment followed moment , and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen . Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside , and pushed a little off from the ship .

" Do with it ? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home ;-- what else ?"

Sunset .

" Broke ," said I --" BROKE , do you mean ?"

" Woo - hoo ! Wa - hee !" screamed the Gay - Header in reply , raising some old war - whoop to the skies ; as every oarsman in the strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading stroke which the eager Indian gave .

" Aye , aye , I thought so . Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship ."

Folding back the counterpane , I stooped over the bed . Though none of the most elegant , it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well . I then glanced round the room ; and besides the bedstead and centre table , could see no other furniture belonging to the place , but a rude shelf , the four walls , and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale . Of things not properly belonging to the room , there was a hammock lashed up , and thrown upon the floor in one corner ; also a large seaman ' s bag , containing the harpooneer ' s wardrobe , no doubt in lieu of a land trunk . Likewise , there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf over the fire - place , and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed .

Heads or Tails .

Bethink yourself also of another thing . When two large , loaded Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks , what do the sailors do ? They do not suspend between them , at the point of coming contact , any merely hard substance , like iron or wood . No , they hold there a large , round wad of tow and cork , enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox - hide . That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow - bars . By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at . But supplementary to this , it has hypothetically occurred to me , that as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them , capable , at will , of distension or contraction ; and as the Sperm Whale , as far as I know , has no such provision in him ; considering , too , the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the surface , and anon swims with it high elevated out of the water ; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope ; considering the unique interior of his head ; it has hypothetically occurred to me , I say , that those mystical lung - celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with the outer air , so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and contraction . If this be so , fancy the irresistibleness of that might , to which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes .

" You said up there , didn ' t you ? and now look yourself , and see where your tongs are pointing . But , perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber ' s hole , cook ; but , no , no , cook , you don ' t get there , except you go the regular way , round by the rigging . It ' s a ticklish business , but must be done , or else it ' s no go . But none of us are in heaven yet . Drop your tongs , cook , and hear my orders . Do ye hear ? Hold your hat in one hand , and clap t ' other a ' top of your heart , when I ' m giving my orders , cook . What ! that your heart , there ?-- that ' s your gizzard ! Aloft ! aloft !-- that ' s it -- now you have it . Hold it there now , and pay attention ."

" On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie , Don ; but -- I crave your courtesy -- may be , you shall soon hear further of all that . Now , gentlemen , in square - sail brigs and three - masted ships , well - nigh as large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far Manilla ; this Lakeman , in the land - locked heart of our America , had yet been nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly connected with the open ocean . For in their interflowing aggregate , those grand fresh - water seas of ours ,-- Erie , and Ontario , and Huron , and Superior , and Michigan ,-- possess an ocean - like expansiveness , with many of the ocean ' s noblest traits ; with many of its rimmed varieties of races and of climes . They contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles , even as the Polynesian waters do ; in large part , are shored by two great contrasting nations , as the Atlantic is ; they furnish long maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East , dotted all round their banks ; here and there are frowned upon by batteries , and by the goat - like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw ; they have heard the fleet thunderings of naval victories ; at intervals , they yield their beaches to wild barbarians , whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams ; for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests , where the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies ; those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey , and silken creatures whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors ; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland , as well as Winnebago villages ; they float alike the full - rigged merchant ship , the armed cruiser of the State , the steamer , and the beech canoe ; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as direful as any that lash the salted wave ; they know what shipwrecks are , for out of sight of land , however inland , they have drowned full many a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew . Thus , gentlemen , though an inlander , Steelkilt was wild - ocean born , and wild - ocean nurtured ; as much of an audacious mariner as any . And for Radney , though in his infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach , to nurse at his maternal sea ; though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific ; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods seaman , fresh from the latitudes of buck - horn handled bowie - knives . Yet was this Nantucketer a man with some good - hearted traits ; and this Lakeman , a mariner , who though a sort of devil indeed , might yet by inflexible firmness , only tempered by that common decency of human recognition which is the meanest slave ' s right ; thus treated , this Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile . At all events , he had proved so thus far ; but Radney was doomed and made mad , and Steelkilt -- but , gentlemen , you shall hear .

Instantly the captain ran forward , and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the cutting - tackles , and at once cast loose the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship .

Another thing . Flask was the last person down at the dinner , and Flask is the first man up . Consider ! For hereby Flask ' s dinner was badly jammed in point of time . Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him ; and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear . If Stubb even , who is but a peg higher than Flask , happens to have but a small appetite , and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast , then Flask must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day ; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck . Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private , that ever since he had arisen to the dignity of an officer , from that moment he had never known what it was to be otherwise than hungry , more or less . For what he ate did not so much relieve his hunger , as keep it immortal in him . Peace and satisfaction , thought Flask , have for ever departed from my stomach . I am an officer ; but , how I wish I could fish a bit of old - fashioned beef in the forecastle , as I used to when I was before the mast . There ' s the fruits of promotion now ; there ' s the vanity of glory : there ' s the insanity of life ! Besides , if it were so that any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask ' s official capacity , all that sailor had to do , in order to obtain ample vengeance , was to go aft at dinner - time , and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky - light , sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab .

Thus the whale - line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils , twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction . All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions ; so that to the timid eye of the landsman , they seem as Indian jugglers , with the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs . Nor can any son of mortal woman , for the first time , seat himself amid those hempen intricacies , and while straining his utmost at the oar , bethink him that at any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted , and all these horrible contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings ; he cannot be thus circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones to quiver in him like a shaken jelly . Yet habit -- strange thing ! what cannot habit accomplish ?-- Gayer sallies , more merry mirth , better jokes , and brighter repartees , you never heard over your mahogany , than you will hear over the half - inch white cedar of the whale - boat , when thus hung in hangman ' s nooses ; and , like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward , the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death , with a halter around every neck , as you may say .

" Ah , my dear fellow , you can ' t fool us that way -- you can ' t fool us . It is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him ."

" WHALE . ... It is more immediately from the Dut . and Ger . WALLEN ; A . S . WALW - IAN , to roll , to wallow ." -- RICHARDSON ' S DICTIONARY

So fare thee well , poor devil of a Sub - Sub , whose commentator I am . Thou belongest to that hopeless , sallow tribe which no wine of this world will ever warm ; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy - strong ; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit , and feel poor - devilish , too ; and grow convivial upon tears ; and say to them bluntly , with full eyes and empty glasses , and in not altogether unpleasant sadness -- Give it up , Sub - Subs ! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world , by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless ! Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye ! But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal - mast with your hearts ; for your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven - storied heavens , and making refugees of long - pampered Gabriel , Michael , and Raphael , against your coming . Here ye strike but splintered hearts together -- there , ye shall strike unsplinterable glasses !

" Do you is all sharks , and by natur wery woracious , yet I zay to you , fellow - critters , dat dat woraciousness --' top dat dam slappin ' ob de tail ! How you tink to hear , spose you keep up such a dam slappin ' and bitin ' dare ?"

Now comes the Baling of the Case . But to comprehend it aright , you must know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated upon .

All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air . But it bade fair to outstrip them ; it flew on and on , as a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the hills .

The Specksynder .

" Mrs . Hussey ," said I , " he ' s ALIVE at all events ; so leave us , if you please , and I will see to this strange affair myself ."

PORTUGUESE SAILOR . How the sea rolls swashing ' gainst the side ! Stand by for reefing , hearties ! the winds are just crossing swords , pell - mell they ' ll go lunging presently .

But there was no time for shuddering , for now the savage went about something that completely fascinated my attention , and convinced me that he must indeed be a heathen . Going to his heavy grego , or wrapall , or dreadnaught , which he had previously hung on a chair , he fumbled in the pockets , and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch on its back , and exactly the colour of a three days ' old Congo baby . Remembering the embalmed head , at first I almost thought that this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner . But seeing that it was not at all limber , and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony , I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol , which indeed it proved to be . For now the savage goes up to the empty fire - place , and removing the papered fire - board , sets up this little hunch - backed image , like a tenpin , between the andirons . The chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty , so that I thought this fire - place made a very appropriate little shrine or chapel for his Congo idol .

"' What are you making there ?' said a shipmate .

Returning from my first morning stroll , I again sallied out upon this special errand . The sky had changed from clear , sunny cold , to driving sleet and mist . Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called bearskin , I fought my way against the stubborn storm . Entering , I found a small scattered congregation of sailors , and sailors ' wives and widows . A muffled silence reigned , only broken at times by the shrieks of the storm . Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from the other , as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable . The chaplain had not yet arrived ; and there these silent islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets , with black borders , masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit . Three of them ran something like the following , but I do not pretend to quote :--

Tashtego stood in the bows . He was full of the fire of the hunt . He hated Pip for a poltroon . Snatching the boat - knife from its sheath , he suspended its sharp edge over the line , and turning towards Stubb , exclaimed interrogatively , " Cut ?" Meantime Pip ' s blue , choked face plainly looked , Do , for God ' s sake ! All passed in a flash . In less than half a minute , this entire thing happened .

CHAPTER 60

" Who - e debel you ?" -- he at last said --" you no speak - e , dam - me , I kill - e ." And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the dark .

Stubb ' s exordium to his crew is given here at large , because he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general , and especially in inculcating the religion of rowing . But you must not suppose from this specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with his congregation . Not at all ; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity . He would say the most terrific things to his crew , in a tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury , and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a spice to the fun , that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without pulling for dear life , and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing . Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself , so loungingly managed his steering - oar , and so broadly gaped -- open - mouthed at times -- that the mere sight of such a yawning commander , by sheer force of contrast , acted like a charm upon the crew . Then again , Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists , whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous , as to put all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them .

TASHTEGO . ( QUIETLY SMOKING ) That ' s a white man ; he calls that fun : humph ! I save my sweat .

" With what ?" shouted I .

The Dart .

It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman , that a most significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod ' s crew ; an event most lamentable ; and which ended in providing the sometimes madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own .

But no more of this blubbering now , we are going a - whaling , and there is plenty of that yet to come . Let us scrape the ice from our frosted feet , and see what sort of a place this " Spouter " may be .

I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia ; expressing the idea very plainly , so that he could take it in . He said no ; only upon one memorable occasion . It was after a great feast given by his father the king , on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o ' clock in the afternoon , and all cooked and eaten that very evening .

But before going further , it is important to mention here , that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance , yet it is seldom done ; and when done , is still less frequently successful , on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as compared with the lance , which in effect become serious drawbacks . As a general thing , therefore , you must first get fast to a whale , before any pitchpoling comes into play .

' Twas not so hard a task . I thought to find one stubborn , at the least ; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels , and they revolve . Or , if you will , like so many ant - hills of powder , they all stand before me ; and I their match . Oh , hard ! that to fire others , the match itself must needs be wasting ! What I ' ve dared , I ' ve willed ; and what I ' ve willed , I ' ll do ! They think me mad -- Starbuck does ; but I ' m demoniac , I am madness maddened ! That wild madness that ' s only calm to comprehend itself ! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered ; and -- Aye ! I lost this leg . I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer . Now , then , be the prophet and the fulfiller one . That ' s more than ye , ye great gods , ever were . I laugh and hoot at ye , ye cricket - players , ye pugilists , ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes ! I will not say as schoolboys do to bullies -- Take some one of your own size ; don ' t pommel ME ! No , ye ' ve knocked me down , and I am up again ; but YE have run and hidden . Come forth from behind your cotton bags ! I have no long gun to reach ye . Come , Ahab ' s compliments to ye ; come and see if ye can swerve me . Swerve me ? ye cannot swerve me , else ye swerve yourselves ! man has ye there . Swerve me ? The path to my fixed purpose is laid with iron rails , whereon my soul is grooved to run . Over unsounded gorges , through the rifled hearts of mountains , under torrents ' beds , unerringly I rush ! Naught ' s an obstacle , naught ' s an angle to the iron way !

" No , no , no ; I wasn ' t aware of that ," said Elijah , slowly and wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg , with the most unaccountable glances .

Thus much being said , attend now , I pray you , to that marvellous and -- in this particular instance -- almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Whale ' s great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped .

" No , cook ; go on , go on ."

" Man overboard !" cried Daggoo , who amid the general consternation first came to his senses . " Swing the bucket this way !" and putting one foot into it , so as the better to secure his slippery hand - hold on the whip itself , the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head , almost before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom . Meantime , there was a terrible tumult . Looking over the side , they saw the before lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea , as if that moment seized with some momentous idea ; whereas it was only the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which he had sunk .